#1
-1 !~
!
Syntax: !

! repeats the last command you typed.
~

#2
-1 TRAPS +~
TRAPS
( for description of thief trap skill use "help thief traps")

  Due to the guild of Thieves natural willingness to lend their services
to anyone with enough gold, the land of Aabahran has become riddled with
various devices and traps ranging from harmless to deviously deadly in their
construction and placement.

SEEING BEFORE DYING
 A trap may be present on any object, or path or door leading from a room, and
when spotted is represented by `!+`` appearing beside an object, or exit.
An exit can further be examined or looked at using "examine" or "look".

Your chances to spot a trap before setting it off are mainly decided by
wisdom, and more reliably by the proficiency in Detect Hidden skill.
Thieves being quite used to these devices get a bonus towards detection.

DEFUSING
 An object or exit may be checked for traps and defused if one is found
using the "defuse" command.  If successful the trap will be disarmed and
destroyed if it was created by another player.

PLAYER TRAPS
  Most of the traps in the Lands, have been created by the Thief Guild and
are maintained by them.  Those traps cannot be removed, and will be rearmed
and reset once every so often by the guild.

 The traps set and created by individual players however, once disarmed or
tripped, are usually removed.  These traps also obey PK ranges and cannot be
seen, defused, or tripped by those outside of their owner's PK range.

See also: THIEF TRAPS, DEFUSE, DETECT HIDDEN, PK
~

#3
-1 DEFUSE~
DEFUSE
Syntax:	defuse <obj>		: attempts to defuse a trap on object
	defuse <direction>	; attempts to defuse a trap on path or door

  Since the guild of Thieves delights in lending its services out to anyone
with enough gold to pay for their traps, the land of Aabahran is riddled
with such devices.  When the trap is spotted, you may attempt to defuse it
using this command with your rank and wisdom playing a large role.
Those actually skilled in defusing traps, have a far better chance of spotting
and defusing the deadly contraptions then their unskilled bretheren.

See also: TRAPS
~

#4
-1 SHEATH DRAW~
SHEATH
Syntax: sheath		: sheathes your weapons if possible
	draw		: draws your weapons if possible

  Any profession of Forsaken Lands has ability to sheath their
weapons.  When sheathed the weapons are placed in sheathes or 
other, at times hidden positions depending on one's guild.  
Sheathed weapons will be drawn automaticly in an event of combat, 
or by choice with use of 'draw' command.

  Sheathing of weapons is a sign of good intentions, and in case
of any Noble or Royal dwellings etiquette.  The JUSTICE cabal also
requires that all weapons be sheathed in cities under their watch,
with promise of heavy fines otherwise.

 Finaly, while your weapons are sheathed, you will not automaticly 
engage in combat when your group does, nor will you be able to 'murder' 
anyone.  Weapons may be sheathed and drawn automaticly in cities with
use of 'autosheath'.

See also: AUTOSHEATH, DOUBLESHEATH
~

#5
-1 SOCKET SOCKETS ADORN ADORNMENTS~
SOCKETS

Syntax: GET <SOCKET> FROM <ITEM>
        PUT <SOCKET> IN <ITEM>

There are certain items within the realms that are considered to be
'socketable' items. This basically means that a small clasp has been
forged in a weapon or piece of armor to which a 'socket' can be affixed.
Sockets range from gemstones to spikes, and can be found all over the
realms in varying locations. Certain sockets can only fit in certain
items, and grant that item the properties of that socket. There are also
certain sockets that once affixed, can never be removed.
~

#6
-1 AREAS AREA COMMANDS COMMAND REPORT SCORE TIME WEATHER~
AREAS COMMANDS REPORT SCORE TIME WEATHER
Syntax: areas
Syntax: commands
Syntax: report
Syntax: score
Syntax: time
Syntax: weather

AREAS shows you a list of areas in the game.

COMMANDS shows you all the commands in the game.

REPORT shows your current statistics to you and also announces them to other
players in the room.

SCORE shows much more detailed statistics to you only.  Your ability scores
are shown as true value(current value), so for example Str: 15(23) means you
have a 15 strength from training, but a 23 strength from other factors
(spells or items).

TIME shows the game time, as well as the time the mud was last started, and
the current local time for the host computer.

WEATHER shows the current game weather.
~

#7
-1 LAW LAWS~
Text:
Syntax: law
 
The law command will check and report if the area you are in is
protected by laws of JUSTICE, and how severe are the various crimes 
in eyes of locals.
 
CRIME TYPES:
 
      sheath:   possession of unsheated weapon in lawful area
      looting:  removal of items from any player corpse
      theft:    use of thief skills to rob, steal, or pry items from a victim
      assault:  attack upon any mobile within area
      murder:   attack (including spells such as summon) upon any player in area
      obstruction:    Assault, attempted theft, or murder on any member of Justice.
 
NOTICE: It is against the law to have unsheathed weapons within any
lawful area.  For details on crimes, and Justice conduct seek the Justice
Codex located at the entrance to Justice Cabal.  Also be warned that any
complaints or grievances regarding the Justice Cabal should be directed
towards the Elders/Leader of said cabal.  Do not pester with the Immortals
with such trivial matters, lest you incur their wrath. 
 
See also: HELP CRIMES, JUSTICE, SHEATH, SURRENDER, WANTED
~

#8
-1 DICE~
Syntax: dice

Rolls a six sided dice and reports random number.
~

#9
-1 CLAN CLANS~
CLAN
The Imortals of Forsaken Lands offer clan related commands to help those
player run clans, that have established and proven themselfs in their 
ability to operate without help.
 
The following requirements have to be fulfilled in order for the clan
to gain "official" status and the commands below.
- The clan must have operated by itself for some time
- The leader must have sent an application to immortals and been approved.
 
Clan commands:
Syntax: clan draft   <person>:drafts the person into the clan
	clan remove  <person>:removes the person from the clan
	clan promote <person>:promotes a clan member
	clan demote  <person>:demotes a clan member
	clan <list/Rank/Sen> :sort and list members (only top 16 are shown)
 
Notes/applications/changes to clan may be addressed using its name.
To use clantalk use "cc" <message>
Clan ranks are: (I)nductee, (M)ember, (V)eteran, (T)rusted, (E)lder, (L)eader
~

#10
51 CLAN CLANS~
FURTHER IMMORTAL CLAN OPTIONS:
Syntax: clan create <clan>: create a new clan
	clan delete <clan>: deletes a clan and its member data
	clan <list/rank/sen> <clan>: sorts and lists members by pts/rank/sen>
	clan list clans: lists all the clans in the game
	brown <victim> : award brownie points
~

#11
-1 'SKILL SELECT' SELECT~
SKILL SELECT

ON SKILL SELECTION:
  Number of classes and races in Forsaken Lands offer opportunity for the player
to customise their class through selection of skills as the character progresses
through the levels.  Many of the skills are linked in a "research tree" fashion
where choices you make early on drasticly affect skills avaliable to you at 
later time.  The skill selection is offered at specific levels marked on the "skill" 
sheet by the names of a group of skills from which selections may be made.  To 
enter the skill selection mode once a group of skill is avaliable to  you use 
"select" command.

IN SKILL SELECT MODE:
  Once you enter the skill selection mode normal game commands will cease
to function and only the SKILL SELECTION (SS) commands will function.

	quit		:Returns you to normal mode
	help		:Shows this help file
	help <topic>	:Shows help on topic
	select <skill>	:Selects the skill and adds it to your skill set
	forfeit		:Permamently skips the category, in case of no valid
			 choices in given group.
	<enter>		:Dispaly the SS screen and avaliabe choices

REQUIREMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS:
  The list of avaliable choices is color coded in order to better reflect
the choices avalible to you.

	Green	:Skill is avaliable  (You've met requirements if any)
	`1Red``	:Skill is not avalible beacuse you do not have skill/s
		 that are needed as a pre-requisite.
	`8Dark``	:Skill is not avaliable as you alrady have it, OR another
		 skill you posses prevents its choice.

Once you use up all your choices per group, you will be automaticly 
returned to normal mode.  You can quit and return anytime, but only the
first avaliable SS group will be avalible to you.

See also: HELP SKILL
~

#12
-1 'CABAL RULES'~
THE CARDINAL RULES OF CABAL CONDUCT

Welcome to your new Cabal. Before you proceed, it is imperative that you
read and understand this list of dos and donts for your cabal. This IS the
final word for all cabal affairs in the lands.

The following is a compiled list of rules and regulations regarding all cabal
conduct in Aabahran. This list applies to ALL CABALS, without exception, and
should be adhered to closely. Failure to follow any of these rules can and
will result in termination of cabal status.

GENERAL:

1) Cabal members are the selected elite of the land. You have worked hard on
your character, and have been admitted into the cabal of your choice. You are
now a rolemodel of behavior for all lower players in the lands, and your
conduct in the lands should reflect accordingly. ALL cabal members are expect-
ed to have flawless roleplay. AT NO TIME will ANY cabal member breach their
RP for ANY reason, other than speaking with an Immortal. There are not ANY
exceptions to this cardinal rule.

2) You are a part of an organization. Like any organization, your status in
the cabal depends on your actions within. You may be terminated from the cabal
for any reason, and any time by your cabal elders. A reason does not have to
be given, but some of the reasons for this occurrence may be: Breach of RP,
failure to carry out specific cabal duties, failure to uphold the values set
forth by your cabal, failure to appear on a regular basis, among others.

LEADERSHIP:

1) Your cabal may have a designated Elder or Leader. These mortals have worked
very hard to attain their cabal status, and should be given due regard. Their
orders and words are to be taken as the voice of an Immortal. As well, all cabals
are governed by an immortal. This Immortal is the absolute power within the
cabal. Any orders given by the leader or patron are to be adhered to. Failure 
to do so, or extended disrespect to Elders or Leaders can result in
termination.

CONFIDENTIALITY:

1) You may not share any written or spoken words that dictate the effects,
lists, or abilities of ANY cabal, to ANY non-cabal member. Cabal skills are
highly coveted abilities, and should ONLY be shared between cabal members.
Likewise, you may not tell of, give, sell, or trade ANY cabal equipment or
items with anyone not of your own cabal. There is more information on this
in the RULES OF ENGAGEMENT section. Any breach of these will result in 
termination.

CABAL POINTS:

1) Cabal points are the currency your cabal uses to fuels you special powers, 
purchase equipment and supplies. The are give automatically on each tick, 
(type: auto), as well given out for cabal duties.


CABAL STANDARD

1)  Your cabal standard represents the source of your pride and power of your
cabal.  Ensuring that it remains within the confines of your altar is a duty
who's priority lies above all other tasks you may have.  Ignoring attacks
on your cabal guardian or altar will result in explusion from the cabal.

SUMMARY:

This is a GENERAL list of cabal behavior, which will apply to ALL CABALS. Certain
cabals may as well have extended rules of conduct, and you should familiarize your-
self with them as well. On a last note, remember, character alignment and ethos
supercede a cabal affiliation. This means that the rules of your alignment and your
ethos must be followed BEFORE following the rules of the cabal. Keep this, and all 
cabal rules in mind. 
~

#13
-1 ALIGN ALIGNMENT ETHOS~
ALIGN ALIGNMENT ETHOS

One's alignment is the path that one has chosen to follow: good, neutral,
or evil.  It reflects one's nature, and describes how he reacts to
situations and how he interacts with others.  Ethos farther refines how
one upholds his alignment.  Alignment and ethos are chosen at birth, and
the gods expect mortals to follow their chosen paths for their entire
lives.

The most important rule of alignment is that a follower of Light can
NEVER kill another follower of Light.  This is a cardinal rule of aligns
and its violation will result in align change or outcasting.

Mortals who fail their alignment or ethos will be punished by the gods.
Those who have their alignment and/or ethos changed may be punished
additionally by losing some or all of their skills and/or spells.

Actions deemed unacceptable by one's guild, such as attack one's own
guild guardian, will warrant being outcasted from the guild.

See also: HELP GOOD, HELP NEUTRAL, HELP EVIL, HELP OUTCAST
~

#14
51 ALIGN ALIGNMENT ETHOS~
NOTE ON ALIGN CHANGES:
  
  When a character changes his align he keeps his spell casting powers.
However, when a communer (uses "commune" command to cast) has has his
align changed in such way that the new align conflicts with his deity
(a good only deity for an evil mortal) the mortal HAS to be denied his
magical powers using "set <char> nospells" command.
~

#15
-1 GOOD~
GOOD

Goods consider the need of others in tandem with their own.  Many good-
aligns will place the well-being of others above that of themselves.
A few have been known to shun violence and war altogether, but most
Lightwalkers will fight against evil when necessary, in order to
protect themselves and others.  Goods who are overly bloodthirsty
against neutrals will be reprimanded, and raising one's hand against
a fellow Lightwalker is a sure way to incite the anger of the gods.

Of all classes, paladins clerics, and healers are the ones most expect to 
uphold those ideals.

See Also: HELP LAWFUL GOOD, NEUTRAL GOOD, CHAOTIC GOOD, REQUEST
~

#16
-1 NEUTRAL~
NEUTRAL

Neutrals derive their name from the fact that their behavior is marked by
neither philanthropy nor malice, or perhaps both in equal proportions.
Although some may choose to engage in violence as part of their chosen
profession, no one who is truly neutral would have the callous disregard
for others to murder without a clear justification for the killing.
Neutrals who kill excessively without reason, or for reasons considered
purely selfish or malicious, will be turned to the path of Darkness.

Because they are servants of neither the Gods of Light or the Gods of
Darkness, neutrals are more free from bias in their adherence to their
ethos.

See Also: HELP LAWFUL NEUTRAL, NEUTRAL NEUTRAL, CHAOTIC NEUTRAL
~

#17
-1 EVIL~
EVIL

Heedless of the well-being of others, evils selfishly and shamelessly
live to exploit others for their own advancement and power.  Some who
are truly wicked even venture forth to spread suffering unto others
for their own amusement, or in service to their merciless gods.  Evils
will lend aid to others only in proportion to what is received in
return, for the helping of others in growing stronger weakens oneself
in comparison.  No matter how much they attempt to manipulate or control 
others, true evils strive to become powerful in their own right and shun 
displaying or admitting weakness, for this only invites aggression from 
their brethren.

Of all classes, dark-knights, clerics and shamans are the ones most 
expected to uphold these ideals.

See Also: HELP LAWFUL EVIL, NEUTRAL EVIL, CHAOTIC EVIL
~

#18
-1 PRAY YELL~
PRAY YELL
Syntax: pray     <message>
Syntax: yell     <message>

PRAY sends a message to the gods.  However, use caution.  The Gods are 
not to be trifled with, and can often be very unhappy if pointlessly
disturbed.

YELL sends a message to all those awake within your area.

Type a channel name by itself to turn it off.
~

#19
-1 AUTO AUTOLIST AUTOLOOT AUTOGOLD AUTOSAC AUTOEXIT AUTOASSIST AUTOSPLIT AUTOSEX AUTOSHEATH AUTOAIM 'AUTO AIM' AUTOALIAS AUTOFIRE~
AUTO AUTOLIST AUTOLOOT AUTOGOLD AUTOSAC AUTOEXIT AUTOASSIST AUTOSPLIT AUTOFIRE

The Forsaken Lands uses various automatic actions, to ease the boredom of
always splitting gold and sacrificing corpses.  The commands are as follows:

autolist  : list all automatic actions
autoloot  : take all equipment from dead creatures
autogold  : take all gold from dead creatures
autosac   : sacrifice dead creatures (if autoloot is on, only empty corpses)
autoexit  : display room exits upon entering a room
autoexp   : prevents gaining any kind of positive experience.
autosplit : split up spoils from combat among your group members
autoassit : makes you help group members in combat
autofire   : causes you to automaticly fire ranged weapons in combat
AUTOAIM	  : controls autoaiming for MOB/PC/OBJ 
autosex	  : shows the sex of player with 'whois' command
autosheath: automaticly sheathes and draws weapons when moving between cities
autocabal : allows to display your cabal to all players on "who" list.
autoalias  : Turns alias conversion on/off

Typing a command sets the action, typing it again removes it.
~

#20
-1 BRANDISH QUAFF RECITE ZAP USE~
BRANDISH QUAFF RECITE ZAP USE
Syntax: brandish
Syntax: quaff    <potion>
Syntax: recite   <scroll> <target>
Syntax: zap      <target>
Syntax: zap
Syntax: use	 <object>

USE automaticly brandishes/zaps/uses magical items.

BRANDISH brandishes a magical staff to cast a spell (affects a whole
group/area)

QUAFF quaffs a magical potion (as opposed to DRINK, which drinks mundane
liquids).

RECITE recites a magical scroll; the <target> is optional, depending on the
nature of the scroll.

ZAP zaps a magical wand at a target.  If the target is not specified, and you
are fighting someone, then that character is used for a target.

You must HOLD a wand or a staff before using BRANDISH or ZAP.

Most of these commands use up their objects.  Potions and scrolls have a
single charge.  Wands and staves have multiple charges.  When a magical
object has no more charges, it will be destroyed.

These commands may require an item skill to be successful, see the help
entries on the skills scrolls, staves, and wands for more information.

You may not quaff potions or recite scrolls while in combat.
~

#21
-1 BRIEF COMPACT~
BRIEF COMPACT
Syntax: brief
Syntax: compact

Brief and compact help set your display options for the game.  Typing brief
toggles on and off the showing of room descriptions when you move around
(considerably reducing the text to be processed), and typing compact
removes the extra blank line before your prompt.
~

#22
-1 AVATAR AVATARS~
AVATAR AVATARS

Avatars are creatures of the light, who fight the evil who engulf
the lands.  They are the most elite of those who fight for the
Light. Avatars are messengers of Sirant, and are avenging angels
of sorts. They are created to battle Chaos with divinity, and are
the chosen emissaries of the God of Light himself. Granted with
their path come several strong abilities and enhancements that
grant them great strength over Demons, and other Darkwalkers.

If you are truly divine in nature, and feel you exemplify the
true virtues of the light, scribe a well written application to
Sirant stating your history and which events shaped your life
to motivate you. Brave souls of any rank are welcome to apply, so
long as they believe their presence in the lands is worthy of
this highest honor.

See also: HELP AVATAR REQUIREMENTS
~

#23
-1 BUG IDEA TYPO~
These commands will take your message and record it into a file as feedback
to the mud implementors.
~

#24
-1 BUY LIST SELL VALUE BROWSE~
BUY LIST SELL VALUE
Syntax: buy   <object>
Syntax: buy # <objects>
Syntax: sell  <object>
Syntax: browse<object>
Syntax: value <object>
Syntax: list

BUY buys an object from the first shopkeeper in the same room as you.  When
multiple items of the same name are listed, type 'buy n.item', where "n"
is the position of the item in a list of that name.  So if there are two
swords, buy 2.sword will buy the second.  You can buy 3 sword by using
buy 3 sword.

BROWSE will attempt to show you some information on the object depending
on what skills or abilities you posses.

LIST lists the objects the shopkeeper will sell you.  List <name> shows you
only objects of that name.

SELL sells an object to a shopkeeper.

VALUE asks the shopkeeper how much he, she, or it will buy the item for.
~

#25
-1 CAST CASTING~
CAST
Syntax: cast <spell> <target>

Before you can cast a spell, you have to practice it.  The more you practice,
the higher chance you have of success when casting.  Casting spells costs
mana.  The mana cost decreases as your level increases.

The <target> is optional.  Many spells which need targets will use an
appropriate default target, especially during combat.

If the spell name is more than one word, then you must quote the spell name.
Example: cast 'cure critic' frog
Quoting is optional for single-word spells.  You can abbreviate the spell name.

When you cast an offensive spell, the victim usually gets a saving throw.
The effect of the spell is reduced or eliminated if the victim makes the
saving throw successfully.  Casting an offensive spell on yourself will
result in memory impairment for you to cast that spell in the future lowering
your skill in the spell.

See also the help sections for individual spells.
~

#26
-1 COMMUNE~
COMMUNE
Syntax: commune <supplication> <target>

There are certain classes in the realm which dedicate their lives in the
service of god(s).  As a reward, the deities have granted the faithful a
special ability called Commune.  This privilege allows the communer to
channel power directly from the heaven or nether-realms and use them to
their ends.  Since they are mentally communicating with the gods, they
have no need to utter words like mages to invoke their power.

As with all skills, one must first practice the supplication before one is
able to communicate with the god effectively.  The more one communes a
particular supplication, the better they will become at it.  Due to its
mental strain, communing supplications depletes your mana, however, as you
raise in rank most supplications will not be as taxing on the mind.

Paladins, Clerics, Healers, and Shamans are able to commune.
See also the help sections for individual supplications.
~

#27
-1 CB~
CB

The CB toggle turns off your cabal channel (if you are in a cabal).  You will
not be able to hear what your cabalmates say over the channel if you set the
channel off.  You can type it again to toggle the channel on so you can
communicate with your cabalmates through the channel once again.
~

#28
-1 COMPARE~
COMPARE

Syntax: compare <object-1> <object-2>
Syntax: compare <object>

COMPARE compares two objects in your inventory.  If both objects are weapons,
it will report the one with the better average damage.  If both objects are
armor, it will report the one with the better armor class.

COMPARE with one argument compares an object in your inventory to the object
you are currently wearing or wielding of the same type.

COMPARE doesn't consider any special modifiers of the objects.
~

#29
-1 CONSIDER~
CONSIDER
Syntax: consider <character>

CONSIDER tells you what your chances are of killing a character.  Of course,
it's only a rough estimate.  Factors such as special effects, immunities, and
vulnerabilities are not taken into account.  You may also find out the 
alignment of the character by their reaction to you.

Depending on the reaction from the CONSIDERED target, you can tell of
which alignment they are.
~

#30
-1 COUNT~
COUNT

The count command displays the number of people (that you can see) logged
into the mud.  It also displays the highest number observed that day, if
it is higher.
~

#31
-1 DAMAGE~
In battle, causing damage is key to a victory. From the lightest hit, to the 
powerful hit, damage is key.  Here is the damage you can cause ranked from 
lightest to hardest (descending in each column).

scratch		maul		LACERATE	*** OBLITERATE ***
graze		decimate	DISMEMBER	=== DISINTEGRATE ===
hit 		devastate	MASSACRE	>>> ANNIHILATE <<<
injure		maim		MANGLE		<<< ERADICATE >>>      
wound 		MUTILATE	***DEMOLISH*** 	do UNSPEAKABLE things 
~

#32
-1 DEAF~
DEAF

The deaf toggle turns off incoming tells, helpful if you are being bombarded
by messages from other players.  You can still use reply (see 'help reply')
to reply to people who were telling you before you went deaf, although you
cannot reply to a deaf person unless you or they are a (it's mostly
useful for sending a quick "I'm being spammed so I went deaf" message to
a person).
~

#33
-1 DEATH~
DEATH

DEATH
  When your character dies, you are reincarnated back at the recall point
of your hometown.  Your corpse is left behind in the room where you were
killed, together with all of your equipment and gold.  Corpses decay
after time, and the objects inside the corpse returns to the pit of the
hometown of the dead.  Player corpses last *roughly* 30 hours of game
time (15 minutes of real time).

LOOTING CORPSES
  There are following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one:

1) Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.
2) PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
3) In first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:
	- Your group mates
	- People who are in your PK range. ("who pk")
	- Members of Thief guild.

Note that if you quit before retrieving your corpse, the corpse will no
longer recognize you and some of the above may not hold.  

LIFE AFTER DEATH
  After the reincarnation, you will remain an untouchable ghost for a few
minutes (as long as you don't initiate a combat).  It is wise for you to
use this time to retrieve your belongings left behind in your corpse.
So get back to your corpse as fast as you can to retrieve your
belongings.

EFFECTS OF DEATH
  Although you are able to reincarnate and live again after a short time
as a ghost, this reincarnation process is not perfect.  Some of your 
health is lost for every five times you die.  Your body can only withstand
so much reincarnation.  You will permanently die without a chance of
reincarnation after your condition worsens after too many deaths.  If you
have lived an outstanding life, you may prove your worthiness to the
Immortals by completing a quest to improve your condition when in danger
of permanent death.

- Any spells that were affecting you are canceled by death.
- Following players and groups are not affected by death.

PRICE OF DEMISE
  You lose experience points for dying to mobiles but not to other
players.  The amount you lose is 10% of your total experience.  Death is
to be avoided.  The Healer spell Resurrection has ability to negate all
effects of death including experience and condition as well as constitution
loss.
~

#34
-1 DEFECATE~
DEFECATE
Syntax: defecate

An optional command, one can excrete their bodily waste once every day.
This is extremely useful when you are too full to eat more, but need
to pop in a pill, etc.  Once used, you cannot defecate until a day has
passed.  Keep in mind however, that it is against the law to desecrate
city grounds.
~

#35
-1 VOMIT~
VOMIT
Syntax: vomit
  An optional command used to empty your stomach of anything you had in there.
It has slight chance of puring one of any poisons that are affecting you at
the time, even though the relative strength of the poison does play a large
role.
~

#36
-1 DESCRIPTION DESC~
DESCRIPTION DESC
Syntax: description   <string>	:Set description to <string>
Syntax: description + <string>	:Add <string> as a new line.
Syntax: description -		:Remove last line
Syntax: description format	:Format the description.
Syntax: description edit	:Enter Desc. Editor.
** "@" <enter> on empty line of Desc. Editor to exit. **

See HELP EDITOR for info on Description Editor.

1)  `!YOUR DESCRIPTION SHOULD BE FORMATTED TO AT MOST 70 LETTERS PER LINE.``
Use word processor to write/format/spell check your description, then paste
it into the mud's description editor. ("help editor")
 
2)  `&Your description should be like a picture frozen in time.``
There should be no actions being performed, only descriptions of what
the character looks like, or looks like he is doing.
 
3)  `&You should NEVER force the looker to do, feel or think anything.``
The looker should make up their own minds about who you are, and what
you might be doing.
 
4)  `&The description should describe you, not your history.``
Concentrate on describing your characters stance, face, body, and their
equipment.  Not who they are, and where they came from.
 
5)  `&Do NOT say how powerful, fearful, or deadly you are.``
The description is not the place to "stroke your ego" by saying how
powerful you are and how fearful you look.  
 
6)  You may include descriptions of equipment that you would like your
character to wear (family crested shields, particular sword etc.) since
it is understood that the actual game equipment changes too often.
When you are done your description and it has been `!formatted`` and 
`!spell checked`` pray ONCE per approximately 10 minutes that you are 
done.
~

#37
-1 DRINK EAT FILL POUR~
DRINK EAT FILL POUR
Syntax: drink <object>
Syntax: eat   <object>
Syntax: fill  <object>
Syntax: pour  <object> out
Syntax: pour  <object> <object>
Syntax: pour  <object> <character>

When you are thirsty, DRINK something.

When you are hungry, EAT something.

If you don't drink or eat when you get thirsty or hungry, you will die slowly
due to thirst and hunger.  You may not drink or eat while in combat.

FILL fills a drink container with water.

POUR transfers a liquid to a container, or empties one.  You can also pour
from an object into something a character is holding.

See also help DEFECATE.
~

#38
-1 DROP GET GIVE PUT TAKE~
DROP GET GIVE PUT TAKE
Syntax: drop <object>
Syntax: drop <amount> coins
Syntax: get  <object>
Syntax: get  <object> <container>
Syntax: give <object> <character>
Syntax: give <amount> coins <character>
Syntax: put  <object> <container>

DROP drops an object, or some coins, on the ground.

GET gets an object, either lying on the ground, or from a container, or even
from a corpse.  TAKE is a synonym for get.

GIVE gives an object, or some coins, to another character.

PUT puts an object into a container.

DROP, GET and PUT understand the object names 'ALL' for all objects and
'ALL.object' for all objects with the same name.  You also have the option
of choosing the #th type of a mobile or object by using #.</mobile/object>.

Example: get 3.sword (gets the third sword on the ground)
Example: kill 4.beast (kills the forth beast in the room)
Example: get all 3.corpse {gets all the items from the third corpse in the
room)
~

#39
-1 EMOTE SOCIAL~
EMOTE SOCIAL 
Syntax: emote <action>
EMOTE is used to express emotions or actions.  Besides EMOTE, there are
several dozen built-in social commands, such as CACKLE, HUG, and THANK (type
socials or help socials for a listing).
 
See also:  SMOTE PMOTE
~

#40
-1 EQUIPMENT INVENTORY~
EQUIPMENT INVENTORY
Syntax: equipment
Syntax: inventory

EQUIPMENT lists your equipment (armor, weapons, and held items).

INVENTORY lists your inventory.
~

#41
-1 EXITS~
EXITS
Syntax: exits

Tells you the visible exits of the room you are in.  Not all exits are
visible.  You can use the 'bump' technique to find hidden exits.  (Try to
walk in a certain direction and see what you bump into).
~

#42
-1 EXAMINE LOOK SCAN~
EXAMINE LOOK SCAN
Syntax: look
Syntax: look sky
Syntax: look    <object/character/direction/keyword>
Syntax: look in <container/corpse>
Syntax: examine <container/corpse>
Syntax: scan    <direction>/all

LOOK looks at something and sees what you can see.
LOOK SKY will give information on current area or weather depending on
time of day. (night/day)

EXAMINE gives information on item, in case of weapons provides the class
(sword, whip, flail, two handed) of weapon.  Examine also automaticly 
performs 'LOOK container' followed by 'LOOK IN container'.

SCAN scans in the direction that you are directing your attention for all
mobiles and players.  The range that you can scan improves as you rise up in
ranks.  Certain conditions may hinder your ability to scan.  "scan all"
scans in all directions.
~

#43
-1 EXPERIENCE LEVEL XP~
EXPERIENCE LEVEL XP

Your character may advance in power by gaining experience.  The experience
points needed to attain your next level is determined by your experience
points per level at level 1 + 20% for each level. Therefore, a human warrior
(1500 experience points per level at level 1) would need 3000 experience
points to get from level 6 to level 7.

You gain experience by:

    being part of a group that kills a monster
    improving on a skill or a spell

You lose experience by:

    slaying good aligned mobiles if you are also good aligned
    fleeing from combat
    recalling out of combat
    being the target of certain spells
    dying to mobiles

The experience you get from a kill depends on several things: how many
players are in your group; your level versus the level of the monster; your
alignment versus the monster's alignment; how many of this monster have been
killed lately; and some random variation.

There is a big experience bonus for groups of three and a small bonus for
groups of two.
~

#44
-1 FLEE~
FLEE
Syntax: flee
Syntax: rescue   <character>

Once you start a fight, you can't just walk away from it.  If the fight is
not going well, you can attempt to FLEE, or another character can RESCUE you.
You may use spells such as "word of recall" or "gate" to transport you out of
battle.

If you lose your link during a fight, then your character will keep fighting,
and will attempt to RECALL from time to time.  Your chances of making the
recall are reduced, and you will lose much more experience.

High ranked warriors are able to sense the direction they have fled in.

See also WIMPY.
~

#45
-1 FOLLOW GROUP NOFOLLOW~
FOLLOW GROUP NOFOLLOW
Syntax: follow <character>
Syntax: group
Syntax: group <character>
Syntax: nofollow

FOLLOW starts you following another character.  To stop following anyone
else, just FOLLOW <yourself>.

GROUP <character> makes someone who is following you a member of your
group.  Group members share experience points from kills and may use the
GTELL and SPLIT commands.  If anyone in your group is attacked, you may
automatically join the fight.

If the <character> is already a member of your group, then GROUP will kick
out the <character> from your group.  Characters can also leave your group
by using a FOLLOW command to stop following you.

GROUP with no argument shows statistics for each character in your group.

You may FOLLOW and GROUP only with characters who are within eight levels of
your own.  Groups of three and two gets extra experience bonuses (see "help
experience".)

NOFOLLOW is a toggle while makes you no longer accepts followers.  It also
cause all the people following you at the time cease to follow you.  Also,
you stop following whoever you were following.  Type NOFOLLOW again to allow
others to follow you.
~

#46
-1 GAIN 'GAIN CONVERT' 'GAIN STUDY' CONVERT STUDY~
GAIN 'GAIN CONVERT' 'GAIN STUDY'

Adventurers of the realm may ask the trainers to convert ten practice
sessions into one training session.  The ability to do this is called 'gain
convert'.

Similarly, trainers can help adventurers change one training session into
ten practices.  To do this, find an appropriate trainer and type
'gain study'.
~

#47
-1 GOLD MONEY~
GOLD MONEY

Forsaken Land's economy is based on gold coinage.  You may use gold to
purchase many items from the shopkeepers scattered all about the realm.  Gold
may also be stored in the various banks in the realm.  Gold is not counted as
part of the weight you are carrying, so you may carry as much gold as you
please.
~

#48
-1 GTELL ; SAY TELL REPLY~
GTELL ; SAY ' TELL REPLY
Syntax: gtell <message>
Syntax: say   <message>
Syntax: tell  <character> <message>

All of these commands send messages to other players.  GTELL sends a message
to all of the characters in your group, wherever they are, even if they are
sleeping or stunned or dying.  ';' is a synonym for GTELL.

SAY sends a message to all awake players in your room.  The single quote '''
is a synonym for SAY.

TELL sends a message to one awake player anywhere in the world.

REPLY sends a message to the last player who sent you a TELL.  REPLY will
work even if you can't see the player, and without revealing their identity.
This is handy for talking to invisible or switched immortal players.
~

#49
-1 HEALER~
There are many retired healers and priests in the realm who have long since
abandoned their days of adventuring.  Now, they often reside in temples to
offer their healing services to the adventurers in the realm just to survive
for another day.  However, they do look upon those who are young and less
traveled with mercy, and would grant free services at their own digression.
To see a full listing of the healer's services, type 'heal' at his residence.
To receive healing, bring plenty of money, and type 'heal <spell>'.
~

#50
-1 TOUR~
TOUR
 
As a new traveler to the land, you have dreams of growing stronger, but
chances are you do not know where you begin.  What follows is directions to
get you started on your way.  
 
Upon your birth into these lands, you are provided with maps.  These maps
are a great asset to you in your travels, make sure to consult them often
and try to learn the general layout of the land (If you loose them for any
reason you can "outfit" (Help Outfit) yourself if you are still low of rank,
or purchase them in Val Miran map shop.)  .  When you begin, it is suggested
you gain 3 or so ranks inside the mud school and equip yourself with the
things found there.  Remeber to set your "wimpy" (Help Wimpy) very high in
your early life, and get a feel for attacking and fleeing monsters found
there in.  Also venture to the sacrifical pits of various temples, you never
know what equipment lies inside (Corpses of fallen players decompose after
about 15 minutes and their equipment appears in the pit of their home
temple). 
 
Soon you will feel that combat in mud school is too easy and begin to
yearn for more things to see.  Once you exit the mud school, you have a
choice of cities to exit to, Val Miran, Rheydin, Miruvhor, Marak, or
Xymmeria.  It is recommended that you limit yourself to Val Miran, Rheydin,
and Miruvhor until you are more familiar with the lands.  Entrances back to
the school are found in every temple room that holds a pit, simply walk down
when you see the path.  Before you set out onto your first venture, visit
the weapon/armor shops of Rheydin (Consult your maps of Rheydin, shops are
marked with an X) and attempt to outfit yourself with weapons and armor
found there.  All of them are worthy of the gold you spent on them and will
serve you well.  While there find the Adventurer's Store (located two paces
east and one pace south of the Central Commons) and once able, purchase a
jug and a lantern as to not get lost later on in your life (You will not be
harmed by thirst and hunger untill your 11th rank, but it will still slow
your regeneration.)  .  Once so eqipped you are ready to tackle your first
foes.  
 
Continued in: TOUR2   ("help TOUR2")
 
See also:  TOUR2, TOUR3, WIMPY, OUTFIT, DEATH
~

#51
-1 TOUR2~
TOUR2
Continued from: TOUR1 ("help TOUR1")
 
The most important concept in adventuring is that of groups.  Forsaken
Lands stresses group effort by giving adventurers a sizable bonus to
experience (Help Experience) gained from killing mobs.  This bonus is
applied to groups of 2, and even larger bonus is given to groups of 3.  This
means that you should attmempt to adventure in groups of 3 if possible at
all times (use "who group" command to see your possible group mates). 
Furthermore evil charactes learn more when killing good creatures, and goods
learn more when killing evils.  When engaging mobs, it is customary to let
the most defensible character be a "tank".  A tank, is simply a character
who initiates attacks onto the creatures, automaticly becoming their target
and absorbing all the attacks (Notice many creatures will assist each other
in trouble, making it hazardous to attack when there is more then one in the
room.)  .  Obviously warrior like characters make the best tanks, while
mages are usually quickly cut down due to their poor defenses.  What follows
is a few hints as to the locations you should choose in your early life.  
 
Evil/Neutral Characters: 
 
When you are fresh out of mud school and of
neutral or evil align, it is suggested you find the raiders that wander just
south of the evil city of Miruvhor, and the goblin village to the east of
them.  There is a secret door you may find in southern portion of the city
that leads into a village.  It is a perfect place to gain next few ranks, as
well as find lots of usefull equipment.  Simply tread lightly and use the
"consider" command (Help Consider) on any creatures you are unfamiliar with.
 
For travellers who are neutral aligned, after you have gained a few more
ranks (achieved rank 5-7), journey to Drkshtyre Wood, just out of the south
gates of Val Miran and kill a few spiders and oozes to gain the next few
ranks, or if you are about rank eight, venture to the Emerald Forest (See
below).  You can get to Val Miran by using the portals in the cities. 
Venture back to Miruvhor and look for the Gate Golem.  This will take you to
the town of Rheydin.  Once there, seek the Val Miran portal.  For those who
are evil, you will not want to kill evil creatures (use "consider" once
again to judge the creature's alignment) hence most other creatures in
Drkshtyre will be of little use to you.  Once you are about level eight and
feel up to a bit of harder challange travel to the Emerald Forest (consult
your maps again, it is located south west of Miruvhor) and hunt farmers and
other weaker creatures there (beware of the boogum near the entrance!)  The
Emerald forest is a great place to take you all the way into upper levels,
even if it is a very crowded and dangerous place.  
 
Once you have gained ranks into the early teens, you may want to visit
the Orc Mountains, through the Dragon Teeth to find more suitable wares. 
The mountains lie east of Rheydin, and north of the road.  There are orc
scouts and warriors that guard the trails, and travellers wander enjoying
the sights.  Use caution while here though, as the foes can be formidable. 
It is wise to "consider" things when you first come across them.  Once done
collecting the wares from the orcs, return to the Emerald Forest to continue
your travels. 
 
Continued in: TOUR3   ("help TOUR3")
 
See also:  HELP TOUR, TOUR2, TOUR3, GROUP, LEVELS
~

#52
-1 HELP TOUR3~
TOUR3
Continued from: TOUR2   ("help TOUR2")
 
Good/Neutral Characters:
  
If you are a lightwalker or walk the balance, Elium forest is a good
place to start adventuring if you feel the Arena is no longer challenging
enough.  Head out of the northern gate of Val Miran to find the forest.  In
there you will find outlaws camped to the east.  Not only will they help you
in gaining ranks, but they carry wares that will be helpful in your early
travels.  This is the ideal place for you to adventure until you are around
rank five, then you should seek the lamias that plague the ruined city of
Thalos.  Beware the aggressive nature of the beasts though, as they will
attack any on sight, so you may wish your warriors to enter the fray first. 
When you consult your maps, you will see that Thalos lies east of Val Miran
and south of the road into the Dwarf Forest.  Once in the forest, head west
to find the city.  You can stay in Thalos for a short while, then once you
have gained about the eighth rank, head back to Val Miran and travel out the
south gate, you will find yourself in Drkshtyre Wood.  When in Drkshtyre
Wood, those of path of good will want to stay clear of the saplings, and
focus on the oozes and spiders.  Later you can seek the serpents in the
northwest of the woods, and the Ettins and Defilers in the west.  The forest
is easly capable of sustaining you until you reach a rank of 12-15 when you
will be ready to tackle tougher creatures such as the Vampires to the west
of Val Miran.  To find them, travel out of the west gate to the great tree. 
There is a door to the west, open it and you will enter the lair of the vile
undead.  Once you have gained ranks into the high teens, return to Thalos
and find the golems that guard the towers.  They hold wares that will guard
you well in your travels.  Those who follow the path of the light will have
to request the items from them or be damned by the gods if taken by force
(Help Request).  For those who walk the balance, you will have to take them
by force, but do not be grouped with lightwalkers when you do, as the gods
will still punish them for attacking and slaying fellow lightwalkers.  After
you are equipped with these wares you can return to the lair of the vampires
to continue with your journeys. 
 
While your first days in the Forsaken Lands might seem very daunting
remember that the best way to quickly get on your feet and begin enjoying
the game is to throughly read the help files and ask well phrased questions.
The newbie chat is there for you to use it, do not be afraid to ask for any
information you require as longs as it's reasonable.  Grouping with others
more experienced than you is also an excellent way to gain information, do
not be afraid to ask other travellers for locations of common equipment as
it will only help you in the long run.
 
See also:  HELP TOUR, TOUR2
~

#53
-1 HELP~
HELP
Syntax: help
Syntax: help <keyword>

HELP without any arguments shows a one-page command summary.

HELP <keyword> shows a page of help on that keyword.  The keywords include
all the commands, spells, and skills listed in the game.
~

#54
-1 HOLD REMOVE WEAR WIELD~
HOLD REMOVE WEAR WIELD
Syntax: hold   <object>
Syntax: remove <object>
Syntax: wear   <object>
Syntax: wear   all
Syntax: wield  <object>

Three of these commands will take an object from your inventory and start
using it as equipment.  HOLD is for light sources, wands, and staves.  WEAR
is for armor.  WIELD is for weapons.

WEAR ALL will attempt to HOLD, WEAR, or WIELD each suitable item in your
inventory.

You may not be able to HOLD, WEAR, or WIELD an item if its alignment does not
match yours, if it is too heavy for you, or if you are not experienced enough
to use it properly.

REMOVE will take any object from your equipment and put it back into your
inventory.
~

#55
-1 HISTORY~
HISTORY

At the dawn of time there was only darkness.  The Chaos Machine had 
riddled the galaxies and universes with its decay, and had moved,
finally, on to greener pastures.  Astral bodies fell and fused, and
in time, planets were formed.  Little is known about the powerful 
magic's that came together to forge the lands known as Aabahran, only 
that a once lifeless husk of rock in space was born under the warmth
of a sun.  From the dawn of its existence, Aabahran was a doomed land.
It grew to full fruition in what the ancient texts called 'The Fourth
Turn".  But the relative peace was not to last.  Two dark lords 
emerged from the shadows and razed the land to ruin.  Shadowspawn, 
his only mortal name, and Virigoth emerged from the depths of a 
hellish netherworld, and took Aabahran for their own, executing
mortals and deities alike, and ravaging the land.  Dark Scourges
were born unholy births, and came to rise in power against the select
few mortals who still walked the lands.  These survivors banded 
together in small towns, and trained themselves to survive and fight
the darkness that so consumed the land.  Armies of undead poured from
the torn landscapes and assaulted the survivors, harnessing powers
and skills never before seen by any mortal.  New races and breeds of
creatures came from the woodwork, some to aid the darkness, some to
aid the survivors.  Old texts were uncovered by the survivors as they
battled back with new energies and renewed vigor until the armies
of Shadowspawn and Virigoth fell back in retreat.  From these 
survivors walked three mortal men.  Athaekeetha, Raght, and Palison
stood victorious over the ravened mountains cape of Tyr Unguld, and 
earned their place in the heavens.  Order was restored as Shadowspawn
and Virigoth spent much less of their time leading their armies to
victory, and much more battling their new immortal foes.  Once
again the survivors rebuilt the cities and lands to make way  for
the new breeds that walked forth.  All seemed once again safe...but
under the watchful, vengeful eyes of Virigoth and Shadowspawn, new
breeds of hatred burned and frothed...in time, the scourges would
once again stalk the lands...
~

#56
-1 IGNORE QUIET~
IGNORE QUIET
syntax: ignore <keyword>
syntax: quiet

IGNORE:
This commands will allow you to control whether or not you will hear
public channels or tells from others.  Ignore is more flexible, you
can choose a keyword and anyone with their name fitting the keyword
will be ignore by you.  The keyword can be anything, even if the no one
matching the keyword is currently on.  Typing ignore with the existing
keyword will remove it from your ignore list.  Typing 'ignore clear'
to clear your list.  The list does not save when you quit, so you will
have to set it again if you wish to continue ignoring someone.

QUIET:
Same as ignore except you ignore everyone.  Type quiet by itself will
turn the option on, type quiet again will turn the option off.
~

#57
-1 MULTI MULTI-CHAR MULTI-CHARRING MULTI-CHARACTER~
MULTI MULTI-CHAR MULTI-CHARRING MULTI-CHARACTER

Although you are allowed create and play multiple characters, multi-
charactering is NOT allowed at the Forsaken Lands.  Multi-character
is defined as any form of sharing of Out of Character actions between
two characters.  Here are some common examples (although multi-
charactering is not limited to these) :

* Having more than one character logged on at once.
* Logging on one character, giving equipment to another one of your own
  characters.
* Leaving equipment at a certain place for another one of your
  characters to pick up at a later time.
* Using leverage such as, "I used to play Bob the Warrior, so do me some
  favors."
* Logging on multiple of your own character at the same time to group or
  help one another in any way.
* Using one of your character to weaken a creature for another one of
  your characters to slay.
* Using a third person to hand equipment back and forth between
  characters.

Note: Although technically asking your friend/sibling to log on your
character and play him for you would not make you two the same people,
if the players of those characters have any relations in real life, they
may be considered as all of the same person. So, an excuse of, "But
that's my friend playing the character, not me." would not hold.

Additional Note: If you don't know what you are doing is multiing or
not, you can always pray and ask whether we allow it.  A good self-check
exercise to do is to ask yourself, "Does my character have any reason to
give this piece of equipment or grant help to this other person?"  If
you cannot give a good In Character response to that question, then you
are most likely in danger of multi-charactering.

Proxies:  If you and someone else are logged in through a proxy, then
you are not allowed to interact in any way with the other person.  You
two should not even be in the same room at any time.  If you do not
obey by these conditions, then you are considered guilty of multi'ing
regardless.
~

#58
-1 NAME~
NAME

Here at the Forsaken Lands we ask our players to have a believable
fantasy name.  This name should be one would be given to an individual
at birth.   It should not be a jumble of letters.  There are no known
tongue, no matter which race, that has their name as just a jumble of
letters.

Some criteria's to think about regarding names:

* Is it a word found in the dictionary?
* Is it a combination of two names/words?
* Is it a well-known name?

We also encourage our players to choose a name that is not well known.
After all, you are given the chance to create a character with his/her
own life, with his/her own story to tell.  It is a great opportunity and
we encourage you to use it to its full potential.

SEE ALSO: LASTNAME
~

#59
-1 LASTNAME~
LASTNAME
syntax: lastname <lastname> <lastname>

This is completely optional for players to choose.  To encourage and
enhance role-playing, characters can now choose a last name.  Just
leave it blank if you wish to abstain from choosing a last name.
There are no penalties for not having a last name.  To set a last
name if you haven't already done so at character creation, simply
type out lastname <your choice> <repeat to confirm>.  For example
if you wanted you last name to be Smith, you would type 'lastname Smith
Smith'. The command is case sensitive so remember to capitalize the
first letter of your last name if you want it capitalized. Remember, the
criteria for names also applies to last names.

SEE ALSO: NAME
~

#60
-1 'NEWBIE INFO' NEWBIE~
Welcome to Forsaken Lands.  This is a role-playing, player-killing mud.
You should first go through Mud School.  In there you can practice your
skills and train your stats.  Also, read the signs in Mud School.  Here
are a few basic commands that will get you started.  Just type the
following commands on your prompt.
 
COMMANDS                PURPOSE
equipment               see what you are wearing
inventory               see what you have in your inventory
skills                  see the skills that you have
spells                  see the spells that you have
command                 see a list of commands available to you
 
Help is available on all the commands and abilities.  We recommend you
go through the helps at a low level, especially if you are a first time
mudder, or not familiar with this kind of mud.
 
For more info, see also the helps on HELP, COMMANDS, and ROLEPLAYING. 
(help <topic>).
 
For helps on combat or skill related topics see the helps: 
RELIGION,       DAMAGE          EXPERIENCE,     PRACTICE, 
CASTING,        COMMUNE,        SKILLS,         CONSIDER, 
FLEE,           WIMPY,          LAG,            DEATH, 
PK,             TRAIN,          QUAFF,          WHO,    
WHERE,          TIPS,           TOUR,           BUY
 
 
For helps on communicating, see the helps: 
TELL,           PRAY,           QUIET,          NOTE,
GTELL,          YELL,
 
For general tour of where to go early in your life see help:
TOUR,           TOUR2,          TOUR3,          TIPS
 
Other useful command helps are under HELP: 
BRIEF,          PROMPT          PROMPT COLOR
 
Please read HELP DESCRIPTION 
Complete one early as the rewards for well made description are more 
usefull early on in your life.
~

#61
-1 LAG~
Lag is the period of time delayed, in which commands can not be exectuted. 
Some skills and spells may lag yourself or your opponate a moment of time, 
depending on the spell or command.  You may still enter the commands, they 
will not execute until after the lag has ended.

See also:
BASH, BODYSLAM, TRIP, GRAPPLE
~

#62
-1 NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN~
NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN
Syntax: north
Syntax: south
Syntax: east
Syntax: west
Syntax: up
Syntax: down

Use these commands to walk in a particular direction, you may also
"look " in the direction for more information. (ex: "look east")

For more info see:
HELP EXITS, LOOK
~

#63
-1 NOTE NOTES CHANGES NEWS PENALTY IDEA APPLICATION UNREAD~
NOTE NOTES CHANGES NEWS PENALTY IDEA APPLICATION UNREAD
The notes on Forsaken Lands replace the bulletin boards and mail systems
found on many other muds.  The following options are usable:

reading notes/changes/news: 
(replace "note" with "change", "application", "news" etc. as needed) 

 note list <mod> : show all notes (unread notes are marked with an N)
 note read       : either by number, or read next to read unread notes
 note remove     : removes a note that you wrote or are the target of
 note catchup    : marks all notes as read
 note format     : formats the text of the note.

where <mod> is optional and can be:
  "to"   <name> : lists those of your notes that are to <name>
  "from" <name> : lists those of your notes that are from <name>

writing new notes:
 note to         : sets the to line (player, cabal, class, race, religion, immortal or all)
 note subject    : sets the subject for a new note
 note +          : adds a line to a new note (i.e. note + hi guys!)
 note -          : remove a line from a note in progress
 note clear      : erase a note in progress
 note show       : shows the note you are working on
 note post       : posts a new note. This MUST be done to post a note.

When you log in, you will be informed if there are unread notes waiting. Type
note read to scroll through them one at a time.

You may send notes to other players, immortals (all immortals), and cabals
(specific name of the cabal needed).  If you misspell the name of the person
or the cabal, then your note will not go through and be seen by the intended
person(s).
ex: "note to immortal", "note to paladin healer", "application to justice"

~

#64
-1 OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK PICK~
OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK PICK
Syntax: open   <object|direction>
Syntax: close  <object|direction>
Syntax: lock   <object|direction>
Syntax: unlock <object|direction>
Syntax: pick   <object|direction>

OPEN and CLOSE open and close an object or a door.

LOCK and UNLOCK lock and unlock a closed object or door.  You must have the
requisite key to LOCK or UNLOCK.

PICK can open a lock without having the key.  In order to PICK successfully,
you must practice the appropriate skill.
~

#65
-1 'ORDER COMMAND'~
ORDER COMMAND
Syntax: order <character> command
Syntax: order all command

ORDER orders one or all of your charmed followers (including pets) to perform
many commands.  However, a charmed creature may not loot the corpses of
others, nor quaff potions, wear equipment, or do others things regular
players may do.  The command may have arguments.  You are responsible for the
actions of your followers, and others who attack your followers will incur
the same penalty as if they attacked you directly.

Most charmed creatures lose their aggressive nature (while charmed).

If you engage in combat with your charmed creature, your ability to control
the creature will be broken.
~

#66
-1 OUTFIT~
OUTFIT

The outfit command, usable by levels 5 and below, equips your character with
a new set of basic gears to start their adventures.  Only empty equipment
slots are affected.
~

#67
-1 PASSWORD~
PASSWORD
Syntax: password <old-password> <new-password>

PASSWORD changes your character's password.  The first argument must be your
old password.  The second argument is your new password.

The PASSWORD command is protected against being snooped or logged.

It is recommended that you change your password from time to time to prevent
your character from being hacked into.  Also, try to choose a password that
is not easily guessable.  Effective passwords tend to contain a good mix of
both letters and numbers.
~

#68
-1 DELPASSWORD DELPASS~
DELPASSWORD
Syntax: delpassword <old-password> <new-password>

DELPASSWORD changes your character's deletion password.  If set, it is 
required to succesfuly delete your character.  The first argument must 
be your old password (if any).  The second argument is your new password.

The DELPASSWORD command is protected against being snooped or logged.

It is recommended that you change your password from time to time to prevent
your character from being hacked into.  Also, try to choose a password that
is not easily guessable.  Effective passwords tend to contain a good mix of
both letters and numbers.
~

#69
-1 PET PETS~
PET PETS

You can buy pets in the pet shop.  You may own only one pet at a time, after
the old one dies you may purchase a replacement.  There are pet stores
scattered all around the realm.  Pets that are under level 11 recall with
you. Pets travels with you when you invoke the gate spell.

See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#70
-1 PLAYERKILLING PKING PK PLAYERKILL 'PLAYER KILLING' ~
PLAYERKILLING PKING PK PLAYERKILL 'PLAYER KILLING'
 
Player Killing is another aspect of roleplay and should be treated as
such.  It has the potential to be an art form, and should be treated with
respect.  Violence is a major part of daily life on Forsaken Lands, and all
that we ask is that your actions are only those that would be the actions of
your character in terms of his/her role in life. 
 
You can playerkill once you have a <`1PK``> flag in front of your name. 
You will have a <`1PK``> flag in front of your name once you have gained
more than 30,000 exp points or reached level 10, whichever comes `!last``. 
 
LOOTING CORPSES
There are following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one:
 
`!1``) Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.
`!2``) PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
`!3``) In first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:
        - Your group mates
        - People who are in your PK range. ("who pk")
        - Members of Thief guild.
 
Note that if you quit before retrieving your corpse, the corpse will no
longer recognize you and some of the above may not hold.  
 
PK RANGE
Pk range is determined by level and exp cost.  As, your level increases,
so does your pk range.  The range is shifted up or down depending on your
character cost compared to others.  For example, a human warrior with base
exp cost is less likely to be in the pk of a higher level as opposed to an
Elven paladin.  There is also a 8 level limit on the range in extreme cases,
to prevent higher levels from unfairly slaughtering those who happen to have
characters who cost a lot of experience to level.
 
- Expect to get PK'ed, it happens, don't take it personally.  Just gather
yourself back up and learn from the experience.
 
- Group killing is legal, groups of any size can attack another group. 
However, this should be the exception and not the norm.  Group killing
beneath the higher ranks (above 40) is discouraged and should be used
sparingly.  Those who group kill on a continuous basis will be punished. 
  
- Do not cut link to avoid being PKed, it is considered bad role-playing
and also, your character will still be vulnerable to other players while
you are link dead.
 
MULTIKILLING
Use your best judgment, sometimes enough is enough, there is no need
to kill someone over and over again. While multikilling (multiple killings
of the same player by same attacker) are allowed at high ranks (above 40)
they are discouraged and punished at low ranks.
~

#71
-1 PLAYERSTEALING PSTEAL PSTEALING 'PLAYER STEALING'~
PLAYERSTEALING PSTEAL PSTEALING 'PLAYER STEALING'

Player stealing is allowed and encouraged here.  Someone of the thief
class has the ability to steal from mobs and players as well.  Be wary
of thieves when they are present.


LOOTING CORPSES
  There are following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one:

1) Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.
2) PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
3) In first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:
	- Your group mates
	- People who are in your PK range. ("who pk")
	- Members of Thief guild.

Note that if you quit before retrieving your corpse, the corpse will no
longer recognize you and some of the above may not hold.  

~

#72
-1 PRACTICE REHEARSE~
PRACTICE
Syntax: PRACTICE
Syntax: PRACTICE <skill|spell>
Syntax: REHEARSE <song>

PRACTICE without an argument tells you your current ability level in all
the skills and spells available to you.  You can check this anywhere.

PRACTICE with an argument practice that skill or spell.  You may learn to
75% proficiency in a skill or spell from your guild master.  You must be at
a guild master to practice.  

REHEARSE is analogus to PRACTICE but works for songs.

The higher your intelligence, the more you will learn at each practice
session.  The higher your wisdom, the more practice sessions you will have
each time you gain a level.  Unused sessions are saved until you do use
them.

Those below level 11 can't practice higher than 80% until they rank.  No one
can use a skill/spell that is at 1% as one cannot expect to learn a skill/spell 
when they have nothing as a basis.
~

#73
-1 PROMPT~
PROMPT
Syntax: prompt
Syntax: prompt all
Syntax: prompt <%*>

PROMPT with out an argument will turn your prompt on or off.

PROMPT ALL will give you the standard prompt.

PROMPT <%*> where the %* are the various variables you may set yourself.

        %a :  Display your Cabal Point total
        %c :  Display a carriage return (useful for multi-line prompts)
        %C :  Display carriage return in combat only.
        %h :  Display your current hits
        %H :  Display your maximum hits
	%i :  Shown mount status _M_ounted or _D_ismounted
	%l :  Begin color sequence (HELP PROMPT COLOR)
	%L :  End color sequence (HELP PROMPT COLOR)
        %m :  Display your current mana
        %M :  Display your maximum mana
        %n :  Display name of current tank (combat only)
	%p :  Display health of current tank (percent)
	%P :  Display health of current tank ("health bar")
        %v :  Display your current moves
        %V :  Display your maximum moves
        %x :  Display your current experience
        %X :  Display experience to level
	%t :  Display the current hour
        %g :  Display your gold held
        %r :  Display the room you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY)
        %R :  Display the vnum you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY)
        %z :  Display the area name you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY)

Example:  PROMPT %n%P%C<%hhp %mm %vmv>
        Will set a standard prompt. (PROMPT ALL)

See also:  HELP PROMPT COLOR
~

#74
-1 'PROMPT COLOR'~
HELP PROMPT COLOR

syntax: %l <color>
	%L

The Forsaken Lands prompt has limited ability to be color-customized.
Using the %l and %L codes it is possible to color various parts of the 
prompt.

COLOR CODES:
  In order to tell the MUD what color to insert, the "%l" has to be followed
by a single character representing a type of color.  Each of the characters
has two versions: regular (code), and bright (shift + code).
The folowing color codes can be used along with their uppercase variants:

	Normal		:	1 to 8
	Blinking	:	q to i
	Underlined	:	a to k
	Underlined+Blink:	z to ,

STARTING COLOR:
  To start a color somwhere in the prompt, simply enter %l<code> in the 
spot you wish it to start at. (<code> being one of the characters above).

ENDING COLOR:
  To end the color sequence simpy enter %L where you wish the color to end.
Not that if the MUD sets its owner color somewhere in the prompt, it will
override your settings.


Example: 
"prompt <%l!%h%Lhp %l6%m%Lm %l3%v%Lmv>"
  Will result in a prompt colored as follows:
<`!1000``hp `61000``m `31000``mv>

See also: HELP PROMPT
~

#75
-1 ROLEPLAYING ROLE-PLAY ROLE-PLAYING~
ROLEPLAYING ROLE-PLAY ROLE-PLAYING

Role-playing is mandatory here at Forsaken Lands.  Role-playing is 
the ability to interact with others as the character that the player 
has created.  By choosing a role for the character that you are playing, 
you are given the chance to live a life that you are not able to live 
in the real world.  With role-playing, you are given the chance to act, 
to think as, and to hold beliefs as the character that you have created.  
This interaction between unique fantasy roles that players create is what 
makes Aabahran an interesting realm to live in.

Upon creating a character, a player is given four factors that they need
to decide about their character: race, class, alignment, and ethos.
Each of these factors can have a different effect on how the character
would be played out.  In addition, many players also chooses other character 
traits such as an unquenched mind that seeks to pursue knowledge, a person 
of sloth who is too lazy to do anything, or a philosopher who questions 
every line of theology.  Those are just a few of the examples that one may 
choose.  Of course, there are many, many more that is not said and we wish 
you the best of luck exploring the possibilities.

See also 'HELP DESC'.

Do note that players MUST stay in-character (IC) as they interact with others.  
Some out-of-character (OOC) actions are punishable by the rules.

Read: HELP RULES, HELP MULTI, HELP ALIGN
~

#76
-1 QUIT SAVE~
QUIT SAVE
Syntax: quit
Syntax: save

SAVE saves your character and object.  The game saves your character every
15 minutes regardless, and is the preferred method of saving.

Some objects, such as keys, may not be saved.
Limited items will not be saved on characters below level 15.

You may not quit for a while after fighting.

QUIT leaves the game.  When you re-enter the realm you will be back in the 
same room.
~

#77
-1 REQUEST~
REQUEST
Syntax: request <object> <target>

Those of good aligns may request help from other good aligned creatures.
If you are experienced enough, good aligns may grant help by offering you
their gear.  However, do not abuse this privilege.  One should only
request those items that he himself would use.  Those who request items
for others would be considered to be betraying those of his align and be
shunned because if he himself does not need the item requested, he is
weakening others of his align, and does deserve such a privilege.
Often times, a person would go into a state of meditation after
requesting from another who is good aligned.  This state of meditation
may last a while, for the requester is amazed by the goodness of this
gesture from his new friend.  If attacked you will break out of the 
deep prayer, but in anger at your failings the gods often destroy the item
you strove for.
~

#78
-1 TIP TIPS~
Here are some helpful tips that will help you in this realm...

- Type 'who pk' and 'where pk' a lot.  'who pk' will tell you who is in your
  pk range, and 'where pk' will tell you if there are players in your pk in
  your area.

- After level 10, you will not get any free recalls, so make sure you have
  ways to recall or teleport in case you run into noexit rooms or trouble.

- Keep a good supply of food and water when you are traveling, and always
  have a light source unless your race doesn't require one.

- Leveling in groups of 3 will give you the maximum exp.

- Always consider mobiles (mobs) that you have not seen before.

- Be careful where you sleep.  Try not to sleep in crowded or obvious
  places.

- Find out of the way places to hide when you're being attacked by other
  players.  A lot of people die trying to flee back into their guilds.

- Always keep on moving, if people can't catch you, they can't kill you.

- Explore as many areas as you can.

- It is a good idea to keep some of your money in the bank.

- Know the strengths and weakness of your character.  Find out the strengths
  and weakness of each class and race, and see which combination are better
  than others.

- DON'T STAY IN A FIGHT THAT YOU DIDN'T START.  Pking is about preparation.
~

#79
-1 REST SLEEP STAND WAKE SIT~
REST SLEEP STAND WAKE
Syntax: rest	[object]
Syntax: sleep	[object]
Syntax: stand	[object]
Syntax: wake	[object]

These commands change your position.  When you REST or SLEEP, you regenerate
hit points, mana points, and movement points faster.  However, you are more
vulnerable to attack, and if you SLEEP, you won't hear many things happen.

Optionaly you may perform these commands upon an object, for roleplay or
to trigger special events.

Use STAND or WAKE to come back to a standing position.  You can also WAKE
other sleeping characters.
~

#80
-1 SACRIFICE~
SACRIFICE
Syntax: sacrifice <object>
Syntax: ca 'sacrifice' <character>

COMMAND:
SACRIFICE offers an object to the immortal that you follow, who may reward
you.  The nature of the reward depends upon the type of object and the value
of the object.

SPELL:
A healer can give up his own health to restore another's.  To commune this,
the healer must be in decent health else he/she would not survive the
spell.  The communer will be drained for a while, and cannot commune it again
until he/she has recovered from it.
~

#81
-1 SCROLL~
SCROLL
Syntax: scroll
Syntax: scroll <number>

This command changes the number of lines the mud sends you in a page (the
default is 24 lines).  Change this to a higher number for larger screen
sizes, or to 0 to disabling paging.
~

#82
-1 SKILLS SPELLS SONG SONGS SKILL~
SKILLS SPELLS SONGS

The skills, spells, and songs commands are used to display your
character's list of available skills (or spells or songs, as the case may
be).  They are listed in order of level, with mana cost (for spells and
songs) or percentage (for skills) listed where applicable. 
~

#83
-1 SPLIT~
SPLIT
Syntax: SPLIT <amount>

SPLIT splits some coins between you and all the members of your group who
are in the same room as you.  It's customary to SPLIT the loot after a kill.
You may also use AUTOSPLIT to refrain from having to split manually.
~

#84
-1 SUICIDE DELETE~
SUICIDE DELETE

Use the delete command to erase unwanted characters, so the name will be
available for use.  This command must be typed twice to delete a character,
and you cannot be forced to delete.  Typing delete with an argument will
return your character to 'safe' status if you change your mind after the
first delete.
~

#85
-1 SUMMARY~
MOVEMENT                            GROUP
north south east west up down       follow group gtell split
exits recall
sleep wake rest stand

OBJECTS                             INFORMATION / COMMUNICATION
get put drop give sacrifice         help commands areas scan
wear wield hold dual remove         report score time weather where who
recite quaff zap brandish           description password worth lastname
lock unlock open close pick         bug typo  quiet ignore
inventory equipment look compare    say tell yell cb 
eat drink fill pour                 emote pmote smote newbie
list buy sell value                 note idea change news unread

COMBAT                              OTHER
kill flee kick rescue disarm        ! save quit delete
backstab cast wimpy assassinate     practice train gain
throw grapple bash roar dirt
murder cleave charge circle         ORIGIN
trip poison blind                   help special 


For more help, type 'help <topic>' for any command, skill, or spell.
Also help on: 
DEATH 		EXPERIENCE 	NEWS 		STORY 		
TICK		IMMORTAL 	GROUP 		VAMPIRE 	
UNDEAD		DEMON		CABAL 		TIPS 
TOUR		NEWBIE 		RULES 		ROLEPLAYING 
PK 		PSTEAL 		LAW 		QUEST 
REBOOT 		SPECIAL		BIO	AFFECT
~

#86
50 APPROVE REJECT~
Syntax:

approve app		: approves the last app addressed read by you.
approve <number>	: approves the application by number.

reject app		: rejects the last app addressed read by you.
reject <number>		: rejects the application by number.

In all cases a single line of text can be postfixed to the command, 
to be sent in the note instead of the default line.

The above automaticly generate a approval/rejection note to the source
of the given application.
~

#87
-1 CABALS~
CABALS

	CABAL			SUB CABALS:
----------------------------------------------------

[JUSTICE]	:	[SENTINEL]	[ENFORCER]
[SYNDICATE]	:	[SYNDICATE]

[KNIGHT]	:	[PRAETORIAN]	[SIGIL]
[NEXUS]		:	[REAVER]	[PANDEMONIUM]

[WARMASTER]	:	[BARBARIAN]	[GLADIATOR]
[SAVANT]	:	[MYSTERUM]	[TEMPORUM]

[HERALD]	:	[HERALD]
[TRADER]	:	[TRADER]


For specifics on each cabal, use "help <cabal>".

See also: HELP CABAL
~

#88
-1 QUEST~
QUEST
syntax: quest

  Forsaken Lands offers an advanced dynamic quest system.  More then 
seventy (70) various quests await you as you grow in rank of your guild 
and explore the land.  The particular order of quests offered to you may 
change due to your class, race, align or pure chance with the end result 
being an experience that is never exactly the same.

 The questor screen will summarize the quests you have been assigned as
well as the tasks you have completed.  There is two types of basic quests:
permament and temporary (denoted by a <T> on "questor" screen).  While a
permament quest stays with you for duration of the character's life, the
temporary quests are short tasks often needed to complete a larged quests
and are reset with each world shift or when you leave the lands.

 Almost all the quests offer rewards.  Most often this reward is in shape
of experience and gold or items.  Many others will also grant bonus train
points or practices and other various beneficial things.

Word of caution: While many quests are meant to be completed in groups, 
you should NEVER give solution to the quests to anyone.  Part of the fun
and excitement is to solve the quests, and the Immortals harshly punish
anyone who defies this rule.

See also: RULES, WORLD SHIFT, QUIT
~

#89
-1 TICK HOUR~
TICK

Many of the game actions are based upon interval timers, including combat,
most autonomous monster actions, hp/mana/move regeneration, spell duration,
weather, and area resetting.

Of these timers, the hp/mana/move regeneration timer is popularly called the
'tick'.  Ticks on this mud average 30 seconds of real time, but the actual
amount varies randomly from 25 seconds to 35 seconds.

Area resetting happens roughly every 3 minutes if no one is in the area; less
often (15 minutes) if someone is.  Also note that objects lying on the ground
will not be regenerated if anyone is in the area when it resets.
~

#90
-1 TRAIN~
TRAIN
Syntax: train <str int wis dex con hp mana>

TRAIN increases one of your attributes.  When you start the game, your
character has standard attributes based on your class, and several initial
training sessions.  You can increase your attributes by using these sessions
at a trainer (there are several scattered throughout the realm).

It takes one training session to improve an attribute, or to increase mana
or hp by 10.  You receive one training session every five levels.

The best attributes to train first are WIS and CON.  WIS gives you more
practice sessions when you gain a level.  CON gives you more hit points. In
the long run, your character will be most powerful if you train WIS and CON
both to the max for your race before practicing or training anything else.

See GAIN
~

#91
-1 VISIBLE~
VISIBLE

VISIBLE cancels your hiding and sneaking, as well as any invisibility, making
you visible again.
~

#92
-1 WHERE 'WHERE PK'~
WHERE 'WHERE PK'
Syntax: where
Syntax: where <character>
Syntax: where pk

WHERE without an argument tells you the location of visible players in the
same area as you are.

WHERE with an argument tells you the location of one character with that name
within your area, including monsters.

WHERE PK tells you the location of all the visible players that are in the
same area as you are and in your PK-range.
~

#93
-1 WHO 'WHO PK' 'WHO WANTED' 'WHO NEWBIE'  WHOIS BIO INFO~
WHO 'WHO PK' 'WHO WANTED' 'WHO NEWBIE' WHOIS
Syntax: who
Syntax: who pk
Syntax: who <cabal name>
Syntax: who <race>
Syntax: who tattoo
Syntax: who religion
Syntax: who wanted
Syntax: whois <name>
Syntax: bio <name>
Syntax: who newbie
Syntax: who group
Syntax: who description (IMMORTAL ONLY)

WHO without any arguments shows all of the (visible) people currently
playing.

With arguments, WHO can show a selected group of people.  For example:

WHO PK shows all the visible players you may kill.

WHO <CABAL NAME> shows all the visible members of a cabal (only if you are in
that cabal).

WHO <RACE> shows all the visible players of a certain race.

WHO RELIGION shows all the visible players of your religion

WHO TATTOO shows all the visible players who bears the same tattoo as you.

WHOIS identifies any user who matches the name given. For example, 'whois a'
shows all characters whose name begins with A.


WHO NEWBIE shows all the newbie players that are on, making it easier for
newbies to find groups

WHO GROUP shows all the players within 9 levels of you.  Which is basically
the people you can group with.

BIO shows personal information about a player.
~

#94
-1 WIMPY~
WIMPY
Syntax: wimpy
Syntax: wimpy <number>

WIMPY sets your wimpy value.  When your character takes damage that reduces
your hit points below your wimpy value, you will automatically attempt to
flee.  You will only flee if your character is not in a wait state -- i.e.
has not been using combat commands like cast, trip and bash, and has not been
tripped or bash by an enemy.

WIMPY with no argument sets your wimpy value to 20% of your maximum hit
points.

Some monsters are wimpy.
~

#95
60 ADVANCE~
ADVANCE
Syntax: advance <character> <level>

ADVANCE sets a character's level to the specified value.  It is the only way
to create new immortal characters within the game.  ADVANCE may also be used
to demote characters.
~

#96
60 TRUST~
TRUST
Syntax: trust <character> <level>

TRUST sets a character's trust to the specified level.  This is similar to
advancing the character for accessing immortal commands, but has no effect on
combat strength, et cetera.  You can give more trust to mortal (or immortal)
characters to give them access to more power without messing up the character.
You can also restrict a player's trust to less than their natural level.

A trust of 0 means to use the character's natural level again.
~

#97
59 DENY~
DENY
Syntax: deny <name>

Deny locks a character out of a game permanently, rendering their character
name unusable.  It may only be removed by editing the file, for this reason
freeze is usually preferred.
~

#98
59 PROTECT~
PROTECT
Syntax: protect <character>

Protect is used to protect a character from unwanted snooping.  Removing
protected status from a character WILL be seen by that character.
~

#99
59 REBOOT SHUTDOWN 'WORLD SHIFT'~
REBOOT SHUTDOWN
Syntax: reboot <# of ticks> [count/color/purge/wipe]
        shutdown

Reboot invokes the hot reboot sequence.  It is like a regular reboot in all
aspects except that players are not disconnected from the mud.  Reboot without
an argument reboots immediately.  Reboot with a number starts the timer to
reboot in a certain amount of ticks.  Reboot -1 stops the reboot squence.

Maintance options may be specified to be performed on reboot with following:
- count	: Counts pflies for Limited item avaliability.
- color	: Colors room names
- purge : Purges limited items from pflies accorind to amount of time played
	  previous month.
- wipe	: Wipes pfiles that have not logged in for 20 + (2 x level) days.
- helps	: Generates new set of class/skill helps files from current setup.
- stats	: Generates statistics on all races/cabal and sends to immortal
- all	: Does all of above

Multiple options maybe passed ex: "reboot 4 color wipe purge" without significant
extra reboot time penalty.  Purge, Wipe and Count count pfiles automaticly.

Shutdown shuts down the server and prevents the normal 'startup' script
from restarting it.
~

#100
-1 REBOOT WORLDSHIFT 'WORLD SHIFT' WORLD SHIFT~
REBOOT

Occasionally an immortal requires that the mud be rebooted so that a change
can be put into effect.  Other times the shared strings reach the max usage,
and the mud needs to be rebooted to prevent high cpu usage.  And almost all
crashes can be detected and a reboot occurs.  All these reboots are what we
call hot reboots, in which players do not lose link, but rather, they just
experience a lag for a couple seconds while the mud reboots.

Here is a list of what is saved during reboots.
All cabal items.
All eq in pits unless they are melt_drop.
All corpses on the ground.
All eq on the ground unless they are melt_drop or repop in that room.

Here is a list of what is not saved during reboots.
Equipment on mobs (this includes your charmies).
~

#101
50 PERMQUEST TEMPQUEST REMQUEST INVIQUEST~
PERMQUEST TEMPQUEST REMQUEST

Syntax: Permquest <char> <text>
	Inviquest <char> <text>
	Tempquest <char> <text>
	Remquest <char> <text/number>

These command handle the attachement and removal of the quest text in
"questor" screen.  Quests set by Tempquest will not be saved on character
and hence will be cleared on re-login. (Mostly usefull in scripted quests)

Quest set by Inviquest are visible to Imms only and do not count towards
master quest.  They are useful mostly for marking behind the scene flags
in quests.

The <text> part is exactly what is shown on the  "questor" screen.
If you use permquest or tempquest on already existing quest, its perm/temp
status will be change accordingly.

Remquest can be passed the text of the quest to remove, OR the position 
number on the list.
~

#102
58 ALLOW BAN PERMBAN~
ALLOW BAN PERMBAN
Syntax: allow   <site>
        ban     <site> <newbies|all|permit>
        ban

BAN <site> prohibits players from that site from logging in.  BAN with
no arguments lists the banned sites.  ALLOW <site> removes a site from
the ban list, if the remover is of equal or higher level than the banner.

A site may have all players, new players, or non-permitted players (set
by using "goodname") banned, by changing the argument after the site.
*s may be used to ban either by suffix (*.edu), prefix (labmac*), or
content (*andrews*), but be careful not to accidentally lock out too many
sites with a wildcard.  Bans do not save unless the permban command is used.
~

#103
55 FOR~
FOR
FOR ALL <action>
FOR MORTALS <action>
FOR GODS <action>
FOR MOBS <action>
FOR EVERYWHERE <action>

Executes action several times, either on ALL players (not including yourself),
MORTALS (including trusted characters), GODS (characters with level higher
than L_HERO), MOBS (Not recommended) or every room (not recommended either!)

If you insert a # in the action, it will be replaced by the name of the
target.

If # is a part of the action, the action will be executed for every target in
game. If there is no #, the action will be executed for every room containing
at least one target, but only once per room. # cannot be used with FOR
EVERY-WHERE. # can be anywhere in the action.

Example:

FOR ALL SMILE -> you will only smile once in a room with 2 players.
FOR ALL TWIDDLE # -> In a room with A and B, you will twiddle A then B.

Destroying the characters this command acts upon MAY cause it to fail.  Try
to avoid something like FOR MOBS PURGE.

FOR MOBS TRANS 3054 (transfer ALL the mobs to Midgaard temple) does NOT Work
though. :)
~

#104
58 SET~
SET
Syntax: set mob   <mobile> <field> <value>
        set obj   <object> <field> <value>
        set room  <number> <field> <value>
        set skill <char>   <name>  <rating>
        set skill <char>   all     <rating>

The set command is used to change the numerical values of the various data
structures. Type set <class> without an argument to see a listing of options.
Set skill all (pc's only) will set all the character's skills to the value
given.  Use string to change the strings on an object or mobile.
(see also string, stat)
~

#105
57 DISCONNECT~
DISCONNECT
Syntax: disconnect <name>

Disconnect breaks a player's link to the game, dumping them back to the telnet
prompt.  This is a non-lethal way of getting rid of spammers and annoying
players.
~

#106
57 FREEZE~
FREEZE
Syntax: freeze <name>

FREEZE <character> is a toggle, which prevents a character from issuing any
commands at all. It can be removed from within the game, so freezing a
troublemaker is usually a better option than they deny command.
~

#107
57 SLAY~
SLAY
Syntax: slay <character>

Slay kills a character in cold blood, no saving throw.  Best not to use this
command on players if you enjoy being a god.
~

#108
56 WIZLOCK NEWLOCK~
WIZLOCK NEWLOCK
Syntax: wizlock
        newlock

Wizlock and newlock both block login attempts to ROM. Wizlock locks out all
non-gods (i.e. level less than 51), except for link-dead players who are
returning.  Newlock only locks out new character generation, typically used
for preventing a spammer from returning.  Wizlocking should be avoided, and
newlocking should be accompanied by mail or a note to the imps.

A god must be at least Supreme level to wizlock the game.
~

#109
57 PARDON~
PARDON
Syntax: pardon <character> killer
        pardon <character> thief

Pardon pardons a player for their crimes.  Don't pardon a player unless you
are sure they deserve it.
~

#110
56 LOAD~
LOAD
Syntax: load mob <vnum>
        load obj <vnum> <level>

The load command is used to load new objects or mobiles (use clone to
duplicate strung items and mobs).  The vnums can be found with the vnum
command, or by stat'ing an existing mob or object.

Load puts objects in inventory if they can be carried, otherwise they are put
in the room.  Mobiles are always put into the same room as the god. Old format
objects must be given a level argument to determine their power, new format
objects have a preset level that cannot be changed without set. (see also
clone, vnum, stat)
~

#111
56 PURGE~
PURGE
Syntax: purge
        purge <character>

Purge is used to clean up the world.  Purge with no arguments removes all the
NPC's and objects in the current room.  Purge with an argument purges one
character from anywhere in the world.

Purge will not get rid of PC's, or objects or mobiles with a NOPURGE flag set
(i.e. the pit, the fountain, shopkeepers, Hassan).  Mobiles may be purged if
they are called directly by name.
~

#112
56 RESTORE~
RESTORE
Syntax: restore <character>
        restore room
        restore all

Restore restores full hit points, mana points, and movement points to the
target character.  It also heals poison, plague, and blindness.

Restore room (or restore with no argument) performs a restore on every player
in the room, restore all does the same for all connected players. Restore all
is only usable by creators and implementors.  Restore should be used sparingly
or not at all.
~

#113
56 SOCKETS~
SOCKETS
Syntax: sockets
        sockets <name>

SOCKETS reports all of the visible users connected to the server, including
users in the process of logging in.  The two numbers inside brackets are the
channel number and the 'connected' state.  The 'connected' states are listed
in merc.h: 0 is CON_PLAYING; non-zero values are various states of logging in.

The optional name argument shows the site of a player, or optional can be used
to identify switched gods (i.e. socket orc shows the name of anyone switched
into an orc).
~

#114
56 VNUM~
VNUM
Syntax: vnum <name>
        vnum <obj or mob> <name>
        vnum skill <name>

Vnum finds all objects and mobiles with a particular name, and prints out the
results.  Use vnum obj or vnum mob to limit the search.  This vnum is very
useful for loading. Vnum skill returns the skill number (for set) and the slot
number (for making new zones) of a skill name.  (see also load)
~

#115
55 LOG SNOOP~
LOG SNOOP
Syntax: log   <character>
        log   all
        snoop <character>

Log <character> causes all of a character's commands to be logged into
the server's log file.  Like Freeze, it is a permanent character toggle.
Logs may only be used by creators and implementors, and should be accompanied
by mail to the implementors.

Certain commands (Password) are protected against log.  Conversely, certain
commands (especially immortal commands) are always logged.

Log all logs all character commands.  It is a server-wide toggle; it does not
persist across reboots. Please do not use this unless you tell the imps.

Snoop shows you a copy of all the input and output going to a character.
The character must have an open channel.  You may snoop more than one
character at a time. Try to respect privacy.

Snoop yourself to cancel all outstanding snoops.
~

#116
55 NOCHANNEL NOEMOTE NOSHOUT NOTELL~
NOCHANNEL NOEMOTE NOSHOUT NOTELL
Syntax: nochannel <character>
        noemote   <character>
        noshout   <character>
        notell    <character>

Noemote, noshout, and notell are used to muffle other characters, by
preventing them from emoting, shouting, and telling, respectively.
Characters who are noshout'ed or no'telled will also not receive those
forms of communication.

The nochannel command is similar, but more drastic. It prevents the victim
from using any of the channels (gossip, cgossip, Q/A, music) on the game.
Nochannels usually result from swearing or spamming on public channels.
~

#117
55 PEACE~
PEACE
Syntax: peace

Peace causes all characters in a room to stop fighting. It also strips the
AGGRESSIVE bit from mobiles.
~

#118
55 STRING~
STRING
Syntax: string obj <field> <string>
        string mob <field> <string>

The string command changes the various strings associated with an object or
mobile.  A full list of fields can be viewed by typing string obj or string
mob.  Sorry, multi-line strings are not yet supported.
~

#119
55 TRANSFER TELEPORT~
TRANSFER TELEPORT
Syntax: transfer <character>
        transfer all
        transfer <character> <location>
        transfer all         <location>

Transfer transfers the target character, or ALL player characters, to your
current location (default) or to a specified location. Trans all should almost
never be used, as 100 players popping into one room can have horrible effects
on slow links. Teleport is a synonym for transfer.
~

#120
54 AT~
AT
Syntax: at <location> <command>

At executes the given command (which may have arguments) at the given
location.  The location may be specified as a vnum, as the name of a mobile,
or as the name of an object.

At works by temporarily moving you to that location, executing the command,
and then moving you back (if the command didn't change your location).
~

#121
54 ECHO GECHO PECHO~
ECHO GECHO PECHO
Syntax: echo  <message>
        gecho <message>
        pecho <character> <message>

These commands all perform similar functions.  Echo sends the message to all
characters in the same room as the user, with no indication of who sent it.
Gecho does the same for all players connected to the game, and pecho sends the
message to the player specified as the target.  Any higher-level god will see
a prompt in front of your message, informing him or her that it is an echo.
~

#122
54 SWITCH RETURN~
SWITCH RETURN
Syntax: switch <character>
        return

Switch switches you into the body of another character (who must not already
have a descriptor, e.g. you can't switch into a PC). You also cannot switch
into link-dead PCs.

Return returns you to your original body.
~

#123
53 FORCE~
FORCE
Syntax: force <character> <command>
Syntax: force all <command>

FORCE forces one character to execute a command, except of course delete.

Below level 57 (Deity) force can only be used on mobiles, and force all is
unavailable.  You also cannot 'force orc murder hugo', for example.

FORCE 'all' forces all player characters to execute a command.  This is
typically used for 'force all save'.
~

#124
53 MWHERE~
MWHERE
Syntax: mwhere <name>

Mwhere shows you the locations of all mobiles with a particular name.
~

#125
53 STAT~
STAT
Syntax: stat <name>
        stat mob  <name>
        stat obj  <name>
        stat room <number>

The stat command gives you detailed information on an object, mobile, or room
within the game.  Without a class argument, the command will return a object
(if found), a mobile (if no object exists, but a mobile does), or a room (if
a number is  given).  Stat room with no argument stats the room you are
standing in.  Stat can be used to find room vnums for goto.  (see also goto,
transfer)
~

#126
52 AFK REPLAY~
AFK REPLAY
Syntax: afk
Syntax: replay

Typing AFK puts your character in a tell-saving mode as follows: any tell to
you is stored in a special buffer, and can be seen later by typing recall.
This is useful when you need to leave the mud for 5 or 10 minutes, but don't
want to miss tells.  AFK shows up in your prompt until it is turned off.

Tells to link-dead players are stored in a similar fashion, and can also be
seen by typing replay (unless, of course, the character logs off before
reading them).
~

#127
52 CLONE~
CLONE
Syntax:
  clone obj <object>
  clone mob <mobile>
  clone <name>

The clone command duplicates an object or mobile.  The level of item or mobile
that may be cloned depends on your level.  The target object or mob must be in
the same room as you, or in your possession.  Strung and set information is
preserved by clone, as well as any spell effects and container contents or
mobile inventory, except for items, which are too high for you to clone.
Strung extended descriptions on objects are not kept, however.
~

#128
52 GOTO~
GOTO
Syntax: goto <location>

Goto takes you to a location.  The location may be specified as a vnum, as the
name of a mobile, or as the name of an object.

Some other rooms are barred to players below a certain god level.

Implementors can use the violate command to get into private rooms.
~

#129
52 HOLYLIGHT INVIS WIZINVIS~
HOLYLIGHT INVIS WIZINVIS
Syntax: holylight
        wizinvis <level>

Holylight is a toggle that allows you to see (almost) every character and
mobile in the game.  With holy light, you can see what's in the game more
easily.  Without holy light, you can see what mortal players see.

Wizinvis takes a level argument, and will make you invisible to all players of
a lower level than your invisibility level.  It defaults to the maximum (your
level) if no argument is given.  Wizi 60 characters are totally invisible.
~

#130
52 INCOGNITO~
INCOGNITO
Syntax: incognito
Syntax: incognito <level>

Toggling your incognito status will hide your presence from people outside the
room you are in, but leave you visible to those who are with you.  It takes
a level argument similar to wizinvis, people at that level or higher can see
you regardless of location.
~

#131
52 MEMORY~
MEMORY
Syntax: memory

Memory reports the size of your mud.

The 'Mobs' and 'Objs' lines report the number of types of mobiles and objects,
not the number of instances currently in the game.

The 'Strings' line shows memory used by area-file strings.  These strings have
a maximum limit, which is also shown.

The 'Perms' line shows permanently allocated memory blocks.  There is no limit
on the number and size of these blocks.
~

#132
-1 PMOTE SMOTE~
PMOTE SMOTE
Syntax: pmote <action>
Syntax: smote <action>

PMOTE is similar to emote, but will substitute you and your for a target's
name (i.e. pmote bonks Alander will be read as bonks you by Alander, and
as bonks Alander by everyone else).

Smote works exactly like pmote, except you must place your name somewhere in
the string, and it will show that string to everyone in the room.
~

#133
52 POOFIN POOFOUT~
POOFIN POOFOUT
Syntax: poofin  <message>
Syntax: pooffout <message>

The standard messages for goto are 'arrives in a swirling mist' and 'leaves in
a swirling mist'.  You can replace these messages with messages of your own
choosing using the poofin and poofout commands.  These messages must include
your name somewhere in the string.

Poofin and poofout only show to characters who can see you.  (see also goto)
~

#134
51 IMMTALK :~
IMMTALK :
Syntax: immtalk <message>
        immtalk

Immtalk sends a message to all immortals.  : is a synonym for immtalk.  Using
this command with no argument turns off the immortal channel (or turns it back
on).
~

#135
52 WIZNET~
WIZNET
Syntax: wiznet
        wiznet show
        wiznet status

Wiznet is sort of an immortal news service, to show important events to the
wiznetted immoral.  Wiznet by itself turns wiznet on and off, wiznet show
lists all settable flags (they are not detailed here), wiznet status shows
your current wiznet settings, and wiznet <field> toggles a field on and off.
The events should be self-explanatory, if they are not, fiddle with them a
while.  More events are available at higher levels.
~

#136
51 WIZHELP~
WIZHELP
Syntax: wizhelp

Wizhelp provides a list of all the immortal commands.
~

#137
-1 COFFIN~
COFFIN
Syntax: coffin

Used by vampires during the day to hide from their enemies and to heal from the
exhaustion caused by the daylight.  A vampire can choose not to coffin during
the day, but in turn, will have serious consequence until they have seeked
shelter in their coffins.
~

#138
-1 DRAIN~
DRAIN
Syntax: drain <corpse>

Seeking to quench their seemingly unsatiable hunger for blood, vampires can
drain the blood from fresh corpse, which in turn will increase the health
of the vampire, as well as temporarily supressing their hunger.  As the
rank of the vampire rises, they will require the blood from stronger foes,
as weak enemies gradually decrease in effectiveness.
~

#139
-1 WANTED~
WANTED
 
A flag given to a character who has broken the laws set in the city.  For
more information on laws, type 'HELP LAW'.  While wanted, all guards will
attack you on sight, and most shopkeepers will not sell you goods.  A wanted
flag may only be removed by Justice, or through serving a full sentance in 
Aabahran's Jails.  
 
The amount of time which you will be wanted depends on which town you are
convicted in.  What is considered an atrosity in one city, may be a petty
offense in another.  The amount of time will be displayed by typing 'score'.
Keep in mind that those who repeatedly break the law will soon find themselves
outlaws.
 
HELP JAIL, JAIL2, JAIL3, LAW, SURRENDER, CRIMES, OUTLAW
~

#140
-1 'OWNER ONLY' OWNER ONLY~
OWNER ONLY

Certain items in the lands, can be bound to a particular player hence becoming
flagged as "owner only".  Items so marked can only be touched or held by their
repective owner and will "zap" anyone else who tries to pick them up.  If the
owner is a "ghost", or the item lies on cabal grounds it cannot be sacrificed
or destroyed as long as the item's owner remains in the land.

~

#141
-1 RARE LIMITED UNIQUE~
RARE ITEMS

Certain items in the lands are avaliable in limited quantities only and hence
are called "rare", or "unique".  Such Limited items only become created in the
game if the number of existing items of that type is less then some amount 
specified by  the original creator, and in case of "rare" items modifed 
according to current player base size.  Often the only way to gain such Limited
items is to kill their current owner, and take them from their still warm
corpse.

LIMITED ITEM RESTRICTIONS
Number of specific limitations are imposed onto Limited items:
- You cannot pick them up untill your rank is of 15 or more.
- You cannot put a Limited item into most containers avaliable.
- you cannot put a Limited intem into a storage locker.
- There is a specific limit on how many Limited items you can 
  save in your inventory (More below)
- Inactive characters will have their Limited items purged. (More below)

PURGED LIMITED ITEMS
While your character can WEAR as many rare items as you wish, there is a limit
on how many Limited items will be saved on your character when you quit. This
prevents hogging the precious commodity and makes the game more fair for all. 
The limit is calculated as follows:

Items in inventory saved = (Level / 10) - 1

ex: At level 15 you can safely hold: (15/10) - 1 = 0 items in inventory.
    at level 20 you can safely hold: (20/10) - 1 = 1 item in inventory.

Finaly if you do not use your character enough during a period of a month,
its rare items will be automaticly removed and returned to circulation.
~

#142
-1 STAIN STAINED~
STAIN STAINED

Items touched or affected by an Immortal power in any way become <`!STAINED``>
with their touch.  Any mortal who touches such power, will in turn become
so stained.  In order to avoid needless questioning, and potential punishement
a mortal should report a sighting of a stained item at once, and never let
their flesh touch upon the item.
~

#143
-1 OUTCAST~
OUTCAST

A flag given to a character who has turned from their path and no longer
accepted by his guild.  While outcasted, you are no longer part of any
affliation, except if you're in a cabal.  Only an immortal can remove
the flag. Actions deemed unacceptable by the guild, such as attacking
one's own guild guardian, will result in the outcast flag.

Note that those who have had their alignment changed to something that
is frowned upon by their race (for example, an evil gnome) will be
outcasted. However, not all outcasts will have their alignment changed.

Outcast flag will cause following:
- Loss of all spells and communing powers if your align is not allowed
  by your current race.
- The Guild guardian will no longer allow you into your guild.
- You will have to bribe the guildmaster in order to practice.
- Your deity will exact heavy toll on you for each time you recall.

As well as other minor hardships.
~

#144
-1 PROFICIENCY~
PROFICIENCY
Syntax: proficiency <target> <skill>

Used to show another or yourself how proficient you are at all certain
spell/skill.  And includes any modifiers that may afect your skill directly.
(Weapons, terrain, etc.)
~

#145
-1 EDITOR~
DESCRIPTION EDITOR

In addition to the old way of entering description, you
may now use the MUD's OLC editor to enter your descriptions
as well.  The prime difference between the two is that the
OLC editor allows for "pasting" of whole chunks of lines
without any hassle of a in editor typing ".h" on empty line followed by <enter>
will show the editors commands.  Use ".c" <enter> to clear
the desc, and "@" <enter> to finish.

Here is an example of how to use the new editor.

1) "desc edit" to enter OLC editor.

2) paste your description in, or type it line by line

3) ".s" <enter> on empty line to see what you have so far.

4) ".f" <enter> on empty line to format it (The format will
respect empty lines, so you can generate paragraphs).

5) "@" <enter> to finish and return to normal game mode.
~

#146
-1 STATS STATISTICS STR INT WIS DEX CON LUCK LCK~
STATS

* Strength determines how much you can carry and how hard you hit
  and has small impact on resistance to afflictive magics.
* Intelligence determines how much you can learn with one practice,
  how quickly your learn skills from their use, as well as how much 
  mana you gain per level.  High intelligence grants bonus to resist
  mental spells.
* Wisdom determines how many practices you gain per level, how quickly
  you learn skills from their use, and also aids in mana gain.
  It also plays a large part in helping you spot and defuse traps.
* Dexterity determines how well you fight and evade attacks and plays 
  a part in how well some skills work.
* Constitution determines how many hit points you gain per level and how
  healthy you are as well as aids in defense aganist maledictive magics.  
  You lose a con upon every 5th death. (See 'help death')

See also MALEDICTIVE, MENTAL, AFFLICTIVE, SCORE
~

#147
-1 QUICKSTART_CMDS QUICKSTART~
Syntax:
	help			:show this
	end			:end the quickstart process
	roll			:roll a new set of statistics
	add <stat> [amount]	:add 1 or the "amount" to given stat
	rem <stat> [amount]	:remove 1 or the "amount" from given stat

stats are: str, int, wis, dex, con

While in quickstart menu you will have a set amount of "picks" to
distribute between the various statistics of your character.  The 
highest amount you can add to a statistic is predetermined and you
may never decrease a stat below the point set when you first enter
quick start.  Notice that quickstart will never allow you to create
a character with a "perfect" roll that the standard roller may.

examples:
	add str
	rem str 5

See also: HELP STATS
~

#148
-1 TATTOO TATTOOS~
TATTOO TATTOOS
 
The favor of the Gods comes in many forms, but there is none so sought as
the Divine Tattoo.  Blessed only to the most fervent of followers, these
godly marks instill within their owner a small amount of their God's power. 
The following Immortals possess tattoos for their followers.  
 
Compassion:    The Glowing Heart
Purity:        The Bleeding Fist
Tranquility:   A White Dove
Order:         An Iron Fist
Neutrality:    The Scales of Balance
Chaos:         The Crimson Spiral
Mystic:        A Floating Sphere
Combat:        The Lion's Mane
Nature:        An Oak Leaf
Discord:       A Bloody Scythe
Greed:         A Golden Coin
Guile:         A Black Mask
Scourge:       Writhing Skulls
Necropsy:      A Dead Crow
Cycle:         A Snarling Skull
Church:        A Blazing Sun
 
If you feel that you embody all that your lord represents, scribe an
application to Immortal, and you will be judged accordingly.  But be
wary...  For the Immortals do not take failure or false convictions lightly.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION, IMMORTALS
~

#149
-1 IMMORTAL IMMORTALS IMM GOD ~
IMMORTAL IMMORTALS IMM GOD
 
The Forsaken Lands are overseen by a group of beings who have been
elevated from the masses.  From their lofty perch among the heavens
they watch down over their flock, delivering unto them both woe and
weal.
 
If you feel that you are plagued with a matter that requires divine
intervention, 'pray' your concern to the heavens above, and if your
problem is judged worthy, you will be granted audience.  Be warned
however...  Beseeching the heavens for paltry matters will bring the
wrath of the offended God upon your head.
 
Should you require to scribe a scroll to all of the Immortals in
general, simply scribe a 'note to immortal' and a messenger will
speed your correspondence away.  A similar warning to the misuse of
'pray' is given.
 
A complete listing of the Immortals along with usefull information
for each can be found at http://www.forsakenlands.net/immortals.html.
 
SEE ALSO: PRAY, NOTE
~

#150
-1 SOCIALS~
Within the realms the Gods have deemed mortals worthy of having the means to 
express the emotions that they are so often to feel.  These different
methods are to be discovered much the way that emotions are discovered
when first experienced.
~

#151
-1 raid raids raider~
RAID Syntax:    raid				: shows city numbers
		raid <city #> <raid strength>	: starts a raid

Certain cabals in the Aabahran are known to pay for and organize raiding
parties against the major cities of the lands.  

When a city is raided, the invaders will slowly yet systematically destroy
it.  Each razed room will result in a bounty to the invading cabal, and a
penalty to the owner of the city.  If the city is lawful the Justice cabal
will also incur penalties as the raiders torch the buildings one by one.  
~

#152
-1 VIRIGOTH UNLIFE~
For each day, there is a night, for each shadow there is light, and for 
each Life to begin one must end. Such is the balance of the realm.

During the Fourth Age of Aabahran when the armies of Chaos ravaged and 
corrupted the realm, a small scouting force of the main host of Chaos
happened upon a ruined mausoleum on what is now known as Isle of Souls. 
The force was led by one of the host's countless commanders, one bearing 
the name of Virigoth.

What happened is not known even to Shadowspawn himself, yet the whole force 
was lost with exception of the commander who returned alone and changed. 
His complexion paled, eyes glazed he returned only by virtue of his mount. 
His mind lost he clutched an ancient executioner blade in his hands its 
tip blunt and blade rusted beyond use. Deemed unfit for battle he was 
disposed of as the host of Chaos moved on. Twas said that two nights later 
a man pale and ghostly bearing great resemblance to the dead commander, 
lured number of soldiers from the camps with promises of great loot and 
treasure. They left in the night armed with tools for digging, heading 
towards the dragon sea never to return.

Not soon after the foreboding rumors begun to arise in Aabahran. Newborns
and elderly dieing in scores, whole villages consumed by plagues. Even 
the very earth was at unrest as corpses and remains were expelled from the 
ground. It was at that time when the ancient force of death and decay first 
came upon the land consuming the fortress of Light known as S'handar in but 
a single hour. Calling itself Virigoth it breathed its foul taint across 
the land spawning such disease and foul undead as the land has not known in 
millennia. The forces of light were pushed back as whole armies of Vampires,
Liches and lower undead arose from the ground to march with the hosts of
Chaos.

History progressed and eventually the armies of Chaos and Undead were beat 
back, only feeding Virigoth's power as legions of beings gave up their souls 
in defense of the realm. Now It watches over its minions in the land, as
the shadows build around the Isle of Souls awaiting the right time to once
again engulf the land in their cold grasp.

Virigoth is the embodiment of death and decay in Aabahran, often deity of 
choice for necromancers, executioners and morticians. It represents the 
inevitable end of all that is natural and the counterbalance to forces of
life. Those who worship It, worship not the act of death but the inescapable 
collapse of life and its eventual end which allows the cycle of rebirth and 
creation to continue. It holds power over all things of Aabahran that ceased 
their natural life, and not even its name is spoken out loud in fear of 
sickness and death it brings. The foreboding mark of a snarling skull is a 
common symbol around graveyards of Aabahran. Engraved for protection of the 
deceased to ward of grave robbers, alive and not. It is rumored that a whole 
cult exists in Virigoth's name, yet to even enquire about its existence is to 
court death.
~

#153
-1 MARSHALL~
MARSHALL
Syntax: cast 'marshall'
 
 To motivate themselves and their troops on their tasks in the lands
the members of Royalty may fashion a banner of their city.
~

#154
-1 replaceme~
~

#155
-1 'SOUL TAP'~
SOUL TAP
Syntax: cast 'soul tap'
 
 This dreadful spell allows a Necromancer at the peak of his power
to tap directly into the substance of a captured soul and consume
its energies.  This residual energy is then used to amplify number
of key necromatic spells.
 
See also: HELP STONE GOLEM, FLESH GOLEM, ANIMATE CORPSE,
          STRENGTH DAMMNED
~

#156
-1 replaceme~
~

#157
-1 replaceme~
~

#158
-1 replaceme~
~

#159
-1 replaceme~
~

#160
-1 replaceme~
~

#161
-1 TIME~
HELP TIME

The Aabahran's calendar is divided into two time periods. B.C. and P.C. B.C.
Defines the time 'Before Cataclysm', which is to say the time before the
great weaving of the lands by the very force of unlife. P.C. stands for 
'Post Cataclysm', the time we live in now, after the destruction of mortal 
life.
HELP CATACLYSM
~

#162
-1 ROYAL ROYALITY~
HELP ROYAL

Royalty, a concept few can truly master.  To lead an entire town away from
the tides of chaos and death that haunt Aabahran.  A position that requires
strict discipline, diplomacy, and patience.  

Those of the royal houses of Aabahran are chosen by immortality to lead
entire towns, with the assistance of the noble house.  Each of the three
city-states will have two of the royal house to lead, while the rest of the
towns will have one to lead.  Royalty is limited to only those that are
truly an example of greatness.  

The Royal house controls their town with power and diplomacy, and they shall
be responsible for all that happens within the walls of their town.  They
are also responsible for grooming potential new blood within the Noble clan
hall.  At any time a royal shrugs his or her duty, they will be demoted, or
removed from the house all together.  

If you are already of noble blood, and your city has an opening for a new
member of the Royal house, scribe an APPLICATION to immortal with the words
"Royal application" in the subject line.  Within the application, include
all qualifications and reasons why you should be accepted into royalty.  

All mortals should realize that disrespecting a member of either the Royal
or Noble house is not only unwise on a mortal level, but you run the risk of
invoking the anger of the gods them-self.  

See also: HELP EXILE, HELP ROYAL ESCORT, HELP DIPLOMACY, HELP NOBLE 
~

#163
-1 GREETING~
### #        ##       #     ##                  ###      #  
        #   #       #   ### ### ### # #  ##  ## ###       #     ##  
        ##  #       #   # # # # ##  ##  # #  #  ##       ##      #  
        #   #       #   ### ### ### # # ### ##  ###       #      #  
        #   ###      ##             ##                  ###  #  ### 
     

  +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |  Original DikuMUD by Hans Staerfeldt, Katja Nyboe, Tom Madsen,     |
  |  Michael Seifert, and Sebastian Hammer                             |
  |  Based on MERC 2.1 code by Hatchet, Furey, and Kahn                |
  |  ROM 2.4 copyright (c) 19931998 Russ Taylor                        |
  |  Modified by Abandoned Realms Mud                                  |
  |  Modified by Aabahran: The Forsakenlands by Virigoth               |
  |  Continued Production at www.flcodebase.com                        |     
  +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
~

#164
-1 MOTD~
.
`#  ______________________________________________________________``
`8/`#/`3o                                                            o`#\``
`8|`#|``   `!AABAHRAN: The Forsaken Lands - MESSAGE OF THE DAY (MOTD)``   `#|``
`8|`#|``--------------------------------------------------------------`#|``
`8|`#|`` [01/07/04]: Banks now offer lockers. See "HELP LOCKER"       `#|``
`8|`#|``                                                              `#|``
`8|`#|`` [01/07/04]: New Class Blademasters.      ("HELP BLADEMASTER")`#|``
`8|`#|`` [01/06/04]: New class Adventurer.        ("HELP ADVENTURER") `#|``
`8|`#|`` [01/06/04]: Bard remake is now complete. ("HELP BARD")       `#|``
`8|`#|`` [12/05/04]: Ranger remake is complete.   ("HELP RANGER")     `#|``
`8|`#|``--------------------------------------------------------------`#|``
`8|`#|``                                                              `#|``
`8|`#|```!===>``  `^THIS IS AN ENFORCED ROLEPLAYING, PLAYERKILLING MUD  `!<===`#|``
`8|`#|```!===>`` `^STAY IN CHARACTER AT ALL TIMES, "HELP RULES" FOR MORE `!<==`#|``
`8\`#\`3o`#____________________________________________________________`3o`#/``

~

#165
51 IMOTD~
.
`#  ______________________________________________________________``
`8/`#/`3o                                                            o`#\``
`8|`#|``          `!AABAHRAN: The Forsaken Lands - IMMORTALS            `#|``
`8|`#|``--------------------------------------------------------------`#|``
`8|`#|```&INFO:`` Arzaeth   = STAFF ADMIN.                                `#|``
`8|`#|```&INFO:`` Bryntryst = AREA ADMIN.                                 `#|``
`8\`#\`3o`#____________________________________________________________`3o`#/``
~

#166
-1 COMMANDMENT COMMANDMENTS 'GOD RULES' GODS~
.
                         **********************
                         ** `6The Rules of FL``  **
                         **********************

`!RULES AND CONDUCT FOR ALL IMMORTALS``
---------------------------------------

You have been chosen from the mortal ranks because the staff
at the Forsaken Lands has decided that you exemplify all of
the virtues of excellent character, and that you would be an
asset to our staff. Like any reward, what can be given, can
be taken away. So, we have prepared a listing of general rules
and regulations, as well as code of conduct to abide by, as
an Immortal. Feel free to refer to this file at any time.

1.`&RANK ALLOCATIONS``
--------------------

Ranks are achieved here by your worth to the staff. The more time
you spend as a lower level immortal, the more your value to the
staff will increase. You are given ranks ONLY by IMPLEMENTORS,
namely, the Staff Administrator. You are NEVER to ask for advancement
at any time. It will be given to you as you EARN it. By spending time 
as a lower level Immortal, you will be undergoing your trial (often called
'gimp') period. Once you have shown your use to us, you may be advanced.

2. `&RESPECT``
-------------- 

As an Immortal, you are to show respect to ALL higher ranking
Immortals. Any disrespect, disobedience, or harassment by any
lower Immortal to a higher ranking Immortal will be subject to
immediate punishment, and/or dismissal. If you have a problem with
any Immortal, please bring it to an IMPLEMENTOR's attention. If
the decision of the IMPLEMENTOR does not suit you, you are free
to enter 'delete' twice.

3.`&GENERAL RULES``
-----------------

There is a hierarchy within the heavens. While we are all staff
members, we also follow a strict code of ranks. Immortal ranks
list from level 51 (HERO) to level 58 (SUPREMITY). Characters of
rank 59 (CREATOR) and 60 (IMPLEMENTOR) are reserved for the most
senior staffmembers. GENERAL rules are observed by ALL Immortals
of rank 51-58. Creators and Implementors do not have to observe
general rules if other circumstances require it.

    a) An IMMORTAL is NEVER to interfere directly with a mortal.
       This includes giving equipment to mortals, aiding mortals
       in slaying creatures or characters, slaying a mortal, or
       otherwise inhibiting a mortal's gameplay.

    b) An IMMORTAL is authorized to enact punishment to a mortal
       ONLY under the following circumstances:

       1) Direct violation of preset rules.
       2) Direct disobedience to a staffmember.
    
    c) Punishment MUST be preceeded by two verbal warnings to
       the mortal. If you decide to exact punishment, you are
       REQUIRED to write a 'penalty' to IMMORTAL, stating who was
       punished, and for what reason.

    d) NEVER use Immortal information you have gathered to
       further your own mortal character.

    e) Immortals are ALLOWED to play mortal characters, but can
       NOT login with a mortal until 15 minutes AFTER they have
       logged out with their Immortal. 

    f) You are to respect and obey the commands sent down to you
       from the upper chain of command.

Failure to comply with any of these rules is grounds for immediate
demotion and/or explusion from the Immortal ranks.

4. `&ADDITIONAL RULES``
-----------------------

Several additional rules have been amended. They are listed here,
as follows.

    a) Immortals are not authorized to have more than one mortal
       character of Elder cabal rank.

    b) Immortals are not authorized to have mortals in opposing
       cabals. (ie, One Knight, one Nexus).

    c) Immortals are NEVER allowed to divulge information about
       the Forsaken Lands to ANY other MUD. Immortals are NOT
       allowed to be associated as a staffmember on ANY other MUD.
       (You are welcome to play any other mud, you just cannot be
       an immortal there).
   
    d) Many of you will have been brought up from a cabal. You are welcome 
       to keep your player character within that cabal, however, as an 
       Immortal, you will never be allowed to hold a position of LEADER 
       within that cabal. It is also frowned upon to have a player 
       character within the cabal that you are the Immortal of, though it 
       is not illegal. If you do, be sure to follow all rules very 
       closely.

    e) This section is subject to further amendments without any
       advance notice.

Failure to comply with any of these rules is grounds for immediate
demotion and/or explusion from the Immortal ranks.

5. `7RANK AND DUTIES``
----------------------

The following is a list of all expected duties of Immortals at their
ranks. While this list is not absolute, it does cover the basic jobs
of all staffmembers.

`!Hero Level:``
`#Level 51:`` These are above average mortals whom have applied for
the status of Hero. ("help hero").  They cannot hold limited equipment,
and cannot engage in combat with other mortals.  They can however fight
and kill other Heros.

`!Avatar Level:``
`#Level 52 - 53 :`` These Immortals are newly inducted staffmembers. They
MAY have been brought up to lead a cabal. They are the most junior
members of the staff, and have very few powers. They are REQUIRED to
stay visible at all times. Their primary jobs are approving descriptions,
approving names, answering questions on the newbie channel, and conduct-
ing affairs in their cabal, if applicable.

`!Enforcer Levels:``
`#Level 54 - 56 :`` These are Enforcer Immortals. Enforcer Immortals 
monitor the MUD using the 'socket' and 'matchip' commands. They are 
required to perform the same duties as the HERO level Immortals, and as 
well catch cheaters and multi-players. They are authorized to be invisible 
from time to time to catch cheaters. Their primary jobs are catching 
cheaters, answering prays, monitoring Hero level Immortals, and conducting 
affairs in their cabal, if applicable.

`!Advanced Levels:`` (At least one completed area is required)
`#Level 57 - 58 :`` These are senior level Immortals. Senior Immortals 
generally conduct business with Creators and Implementors in the form of 
bug reports, typo reports, and as well answer questions of lower level 
Immortals. Many Advanced Level Immortals are assigned Hero level Immortals 
to indoctrinate. They are occasionally visible to answer questions, but 
more often are the focus of RP Plots, quests, and rule enforcement.

`!Senior Staff:``
`#Level 59 :`` These immortals are seldom visible. They are the only liasons
between the IMPLEMENTORS and the rest of the staff. They exist to create
RP Plots, quests, and answer questions from the lower staff, or direct
questions from staffmembers to Implementors. Senior staff are often 
deities, and issue tattoos.

`!Implementors:``
`#Level 60 :`` These are the administrators of the MUD. Their power is 
absolute. They are NEVER questioned or harassed. They are RARELY visible as 
they are often coding, fixing bugs, building, fixing typos, or otherwise 
working on the mechanics of the game. They have ultimate, and absolute power.
Basically, don't mess with them.

If you are caught in direct disobedience to any higher ranking staffmember,
you can be demoted and/or discharged.

6. `&CONDUCT``
--------------

You are reponsible for good conduct while you are here. If you are caught
cheating, you will be penalized. We have instilled an amount of trust in 
you, and if you betray that trust, expect the repercussions.

Do not send useless echos or emotes to players. You are here to help game
play, not impede it.

You are not to walk around with your `!ego`` on your sleeve. You are here, 
as a staffmember, to do a professional job. Treat players with respect. We 
are here to cater to players, after all. A mud with no players would be a 
very boring place. Treat newbies with respect, since newbies tend to be 
return visitors, and will tell friends. The more experience players we 
get, the more exciting we will become. Remember, you too were a newbie, 
once.

Any Immortal who steps out of line will be punished. Rules and guidelines 
have been set. Just because you are staff here does not give you the right 
to insult, mock, or disrespect players.

Certain players who spam, advertise for other muds, trash kill, or cheat, 
are to be dealt with firmly, and harshly. Many times, they do not know 
they are doing anything wrong. Please deal with them accordingly.

7. `&SUMMATION``
----------------

These rules are subject to review and change at any time. Please keep 
yourself updated and familiar with all Immortal Rules from time to time. 
If you have any questions, feel free to contact a liason, or an Implementor.

~

#167
-1 RULE RULES~
RULE RULES

These are the rules of the Forsaken Lands.  The are made to make your
experience here more enjoyable.  They are also here to make the game more
"fair" for everyone.

* Player stealing and player killing is allowed here to a reasonable
  extent.  All kills should have a RP reason behind it.  However, do
  not spam prays to the heavens about the wrong doings that lead to your
  death.  The immortal will only step in when he/she decides that person
  has been killing excessively.

* Your presence here is a privilege not a right. Obey any orders from gods,
  and you will be fine.  Deletion does not require a reason, appeals are to
  be sent to the implementors.

* NO multiple logins, multiple playing, or multicharring.  (For more
  information, read 'help MULTI'.)  Further, if any evidence is found
  implying that you and/or others are allowing your character's lives
  and/or actions to be affected by anything ooc, you will be severely
  punished (ie, no forums, no chats, no icq).  OOC knowledge will always
  play a part, but make sure that your role is not obviously affected. 
  If you are sharing a connection via a proxy server, then you are not 
  allowed to interact in anyway with the other person.  You two should 
  never be in the same room, you will be guilty of multi'ing nevertheless.

* DO NOT exploit a bug in any way, shape or form.  If you see a bug or have
  knowledge of a bug, report it to the immortals.

* DO NOT SPAM.  Spamming is filling up someone's screen with things.  For
  example, send a tell, do a say or emote over and over just to annoy
  someone.  You will be warned once and then action will be taken after
  that.  Another form of spamming is typing the same command over and
  over again.  You can avoid that type of spamming by typing a different
  command in between.

* Forsaken Lands is a PG-13 MUD. Any form of intimitate sexual behavior 
and excessive use of present day curses, or ANY form of sexual harassment 
will be dealt with in a harsh and effective manner. 


* These rules are simple, and clear, if you violate them, it will be
  considered cheating.  Cheating will not be tolerated.  If you are caught
  violating these rules you will be punished according, depending on the
  situation and previous offenses.

* Though scripting for your characters are not illegal, however leaving them
  on "life-support" is.  If you leave your characters unattended, such
  "out of body experiences" will be dealt with accordingly.

* The Implementors made the rules, they reserve the right to add or change
  any of the rules as they see fit.  So when they tell you not to do something,
  don't.  And don't bother arguing to them about it.

~

#168
-1 DIKU~
DIKU
.                    Original game idea, concept, and design:

          Katja Nyboe               [Superwoman] (katz@freja.diku.dk)
          Tom Madsen              [Stormbringer] (noop@freja.diku.dk)
          Hans Henrik Staerfeldt           [God] (bombman@freja.diku.dk)
          Michael Seifert                 [Papi] (seifert@freja.diku.dk)
          Sebastian Hammer               [Quinn] (quinn@freja.diku.dk)


Developed at: DIKU -- The Department of Computer Science
                      at the University of Copenhagen.
~

#169
0 replaceme~
~

#170
-1 MERC~
MERC

This mud is based on Merc 2.1, created by Furey, Hatchet, and Kahn.
Merc 2.1 is available as Merc_21.tar.gz from ftp.tcp.com and
ftp.math.okstate.edu.
E-mail to 'majordomo@webnexus.com' to join the merc mailing list.

Thanks to ...
  ... Diku Mud for starting it all.
  ... The Free Software Foundation and DJ Delorie for kick-ass tools.
  ... Copper Mud and Alfa Mud for releasing their code and worlds.
  ... Aod of Generic for ... well, everything.  You're a hoopy frood, Aod.
  ... Alander for many ideas and contributions.
  ... John Brothers of Silly for permission to use Silly code and worlds.
  ... Zrin for administering the mailing list.
  ... Abaddon for proofreading our comm.c.
  ... Hind, Quin, Vic, Diavolo, Oleg, Trienne, and others for porting help.
  ... Diavolo, Grodyn, Morgenes, and others for code and bug fixes.
  ... Raff, Doctor, VampLestat, Nirrad, Tyrst, PinkF, Chris, Glop for worlds.
  ... the players and imps of Mud Dome, Final Mud, Mud Lite, Vego Mud, Rivers
      of Mud, Ruhr Mud, and Mystic Realms for bug reports, ideas, new code,
      and hours of enjoyment.

Also see "help ROM" for information about the Rivers of Mud code base.
~

#171
-1 DRUID DRUIDS~
DRUID
 
Druids are the purest embodiment of nature. The live to serve
only Gaia, the Earth Mother, and are perhaps some of the most
ancient of the sages in Aabahran. By nature, Druids are communers,
as they use the forces of the Forest to cast their own spells
of protection and healing. Powerful healers and quite knowing
of the ways of natural herbs and healing remedies, a Druid is
a very smart companion to know, as they can provide certain
types of healing even those of the Healer profession cannot.
 
Druids are the predecessors of the modern Ranger class, and
while they have many of the same combat abilities, they are
much more aloof, and clerical than the fighting class of the
Ranger.
 
As a Druid's home is within the forest, while he is away from
the forest, he will experience yearning (HELP YEARNING) the
longer he remains away.
 
A druid will find his guildmasters residing within a forest
only, as druids by nature dislike population and the crowd of
a city. They are rural creatures, and come out of the forest
very seldomly.
 
If you desire to join the order of Druids, you must be of NEUTRAL
align and be either a HUMAN or WEREBEAST ranger of no more or less 
than the 30th rank.  Upon reaching this rank, inquire at the Ranger
Guild.

NOTE: YOU MAY NOT BECOME A DRUID WHILE CABALED.

See also: HELP YEARNING
~

#172
-1 YEARNING~
While a druid parts from a forest, and wanders the lands, he
will find that he eventually becomes affected by the Yearning.
As a druid is raised and lives off of a forest, the longer he
is away from the forest, the more this yearning will harm him.
However, once he returns to the forest, he will find that the
yearning ceases.
~

#173
-1 ROM~
ROM

ROM started in early February 1993, using Merc 1.0 code. In July of 1993,
ROM II was started, eventually replacing the original ROM.  ROM was up for
a little over a year, after which the code (version 2.3) was released,
and various other ROM muds were started, including Rivers of Mud under
a new management (Zump's ROM), at rom.org 9000.

Alander's current project is Athen, the sequel to the ROM code.
It will be found at hypercube.org 6666, when it is opened.

The following people contributed to the ROM flavor of the merc base code:

Socials --
    Kelsey and Liralen

New, Improved Valhalla --
    Liralen

Puff's new special proc and improved poofin/poofout code --
    Seth

Maps and map shop --
    Ezra, Regnan (Olympus)

Nirvana zone --
    Forstall (mobiles rewritten by Alander)

Mob Factory --
    Pinkfloyd (originally written for ROM, mobiles rewritten by Alander)

Geographically correct Midgaard (tm) --
    Alander

Ideas and playtesting --
    Thousands of dedicated mudders around the world

Beta testing --
    Ken Blosser, Doug Araya, and Sherene Neil all helped with bug reports
    and suggestions, saving a lot of headaches

ROM 2.4 was developed during my time with Moosehead mud, and the release
shares many of the features I wrote while I was there.  Additional code
was written by Seth Scott (enchant armor, the new poofin/poofout), and many
contributions and ideas from the Merc list were used.  Portions of Rusty's
code from Moosehead also remain.

The new features of 2.4 were largely produced in bull sessions with
Gabrielle Taylor and Brian Moore, without whom this release wouldn't
have happened.  In particular, the new privacy code, furniture, and
wiznet are largely the results of Gabrielle's ideas.

Changes to the standard diku mob and object format, as well as the changes
to Merc 2.1 source code, were done by Alander over many a late night of
hair-pulling. Hope you enjoy it.

(my apologies if anyone was forgotten in this list)
~

#174
-1 LUCK~
LUCK
										
Luck is exactly what it sounds like.  In cases that luck is involved,
that's where it will come in.  It does not play a role in determining
the outcome of most cases.  In fact, while your luck is high, you
might not be real lucky playing wise.  There's no need to worry that
your luck is low when you've created your character, because luck
fluctuates during the course of your life.  Unlike other attributes,
luck cannot be trained, but there are certain items/spells that will
enhance your luck.

~

#175
-1 COLOR~
COLOR

syntax: color <setting>

Toggles the status of various color settings.  Avaliable settings are:

color:		Main ON/OFF switch for mud color
damage:		Color Coding of damage messages 
		`1RED``		= done to you
		`3YELLOW``	= done by you
		`8GREY``	= done by others


~

#176
-1 SHED~
SHED
Syntax: SHED

Sliths have been known to be akin to snakes. Hence, in combat, a slith
is able to 'shed' a cast of skin to help aid him in combat. This cast
of skin is a near transparent replica of the original slith, and has
been known to instill fear into a foe while fighting. Generally, the
shod skin cannot withstand the rigors of battle, and soon crumbles
into dust.

~

#177
-1 SWALLOW~
SWALLOW
Syntax: SWALLOW <corpse>

Much like their reptilian cousins, sliths have hingable jaws. They
are known to feed on corpses by merely swallowing them whole. This
provides ample sustenance for a hungry slith.

~

#178
-1 OUTLAW~
OUTLAWS

Outlaws have been forsaken by the laws of the land. They are criminals
who have been deemed by justice to be irrepairable, and who are now
not protected by the laws of cities. Outlaws may be attacked by anyone,
anywhere, without chance for repercussion by Justice.  They are the worst 
criminals of the land, and, as thus, they are killed on a spot when apprehended,
and never lose their WANTED flags.

See also: HELP LAW, CRIMES
~

#179
-1 'RACE HELP' 'RACE' 'RACES'~
RACE RACES
 
The Forsaken Lands has the following races for player characters:
 
 Human        0 extra   The standard race, average attributes.
 Feral      100 extra   Humanoid beasts, fast and ferocious.
 Gnome      150 extra   Fragile but very intelligent and incredibly wise.
 Storm      150 extra   Most intelligent of giants, always good.
 Stone      175 extra   Neutral giants, strong and healthy, but very dim.
 Werebeast  175 extra   Half-human half-beasts, always neutral.
 Fire       200 extra   Unbelievably strong, healthy giants, always evil.
 Half-Elf   250 extra   Mix breed of humans and elves.  Mixed attributes.
 Ogre       250 extra   Very strong and healthy, huge regenerative powers. 
 Avian      300 extra   Bird-like humanoids that fly, very dexterous.
 Dwarf      325 extra   Stocky demi-humans that are amazingly hardy.
 Duergar    325 extra   Evil dwarves, not as healthy, but more dexterous.
 Halfling   350 extra   Very small, wise and incredibly agile.
 Slith      500 extra   Sentient reptilians, quick and agile.
 Minotaur   500 extra   Foul tempered man-like creatures with bull head.
 Illithid   500 extra   Powerful psi subterranean creatures, always evil. 
 Elf        500 extra   Fair, amazingly smart and dexterous, always good.
 Drow       500 extra   Like their elven cousins, except sinisterly evil.
 Faerie     500 extra   Small and fast, very intelligent.
      
            Different races have different starting statistics.
 
In addition to the above listed races, The Forsaken Lands also gives you
the oppurtunity to apply to have a custom race, as determined by the limit
of your own imagination.
             
See Also:  QRACE
~

#180
-1 AVIAN AVIANS~
AVIAN AVIANS
 
Avians are bird like creatures that resemble humans.  They have wings
that allow them to be in constant flight.  Avians have been known to
travel great distances without needing a rest.  When they are not in
flight, avians are able to fold their wings and rest them on their
backs.  Because of their dependance on the wind for propulsion, they
have become sensitive to disturbances in wind speed and pressure.
 
Avians can be the following classes:
Warrior, Thief, Ninja, Battlemage, Invoker, Necromancer, Dark-Knight, Bard
and Blademaster.
~

#181
-1 DROW DROWS DARK-ELF~
DROW DROWS DARK-ELF

Drows are a race of renegade elves who have turned their energy toward
evil.  They are inherently intelligent but have neglected intellectual
studies and become very nimble from years of generations of thievery and
mischief.  Like elves, drows have infravision and can walk unnoticed.
Drows must stay evil to cast any spells they might know.  Those who
turn to good are frowned upon.  Drows are burned by the touch of silver
and mithril.

Drows can be the following classes:
Warrior, Thief, Ninja, Cleric, Battlemage, Invoker, Necromancer, 
Blademaster and Dark-Knight.
~

#182
-1 DUERGAR DUERGARS~
DUERGAR DUERGARS

Duergars, or sometimes called Dark-Dwarves, are the evil counter part 
to their surface cousins, the dwarves.  Much like their cousin dwarves,
duergars are known to be very healthy.  They share the same magic 
resistance and vulnerability to drowning, as well as infrared vision.
But their evil ways have lead them to a life of thief and deceit, making 
them more dexterous than their dwarf cousin.

Duergars can be the follow classes:
Warrior, Berserker, Thief, Blademaster and Cleric.
~

#183
-1 DWARF DWARVES~
DWARF DWARVES
 
Dwarves are short, stocky demi-humans, known for foul temper and great
stamina.  Dwarves have high strength and constitution, but poor dexterity.  
They are not as smart as humans, but are usually wiser due to their long 
lifespans.  Dwarves make excellent fighters and priests, due to their hearty 
constitution and strong temperament.
 
Dwarves are resistant to magical damage, but cannot swim, and are very
vulnerable to drowning.  Dwarf are born with the ability to see in
the dark.  Dwarf warriors are adept at berserk.
 
Dwarves can be the following classes:
Warrior, Cleric, Bard, Blademaster and Berserker.
~

#184
-1 ELF ELVES~
ELF ELVES
 
Elves are slightly taller than humans, but have a much lighter build.
They lack the strength and stamina of the other races, but are far more
agile, both in body and mind.  Elves are superb mages and thieves, but
have at best fair talent as warriors or priests.
 
Elves resist charm spells most effectively, due to their magical nature.
However, they are burned by the touch of iron, and so are barred from
the use of iron in their adventuring careers.  Elves are notoriously
hard to spot.  They are adept with the ability to sneak and see in
the dark.
 
Elves can be the follow classes:
Warrior, Thief, Cleric, Battlemage, Invoker, Ranger, Bard
Blademaster and Paladin.
~

#185
-1 HUMAN HUMANS MAN~
HUMAN HUMANS MAN

Humans are the most common race in the world, and make up the majority
of adventurers. Although they have no special talents like the other
races, they are more versitile, being skilled in all of the classes.
Humans have very average attributes are able to gain more benefits
from magical devices.

Humans can be the following classes:
All.
~

#186
-1 GIANT GIANTS~
Giants (not to be confused with Ogres) are the largest of the races, 
ranging from 9-12 feet in height.  They are stronger than any other 
race, and almost as durable as the dwarves.  They aren't too bright, 
however, and their huge size makes them more clumsy than the other 
races.  There are three different types of giants in Aabahran.

See: STORM, STONE, FIRE
~

#187
-1 STORM~
STORM

Storm giants are the most intelligent of giants.  They live in cities 
built underwater and on the land surrounding bodies of water.  Despite 
being civilized, however, they are still rough and quick to ire, and 
their chaotic tendencies have caused them to being dubbed 'Storm' giants 
by humans.

Like all giants, storm giants have a size advantage over most adventurers,
and are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants
an innate mastery in bash, body slam, and enhanced damage, although their
slow minds make them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells.  Storm giants
are uniquely resistant to lightning, and can travel above and below water
without the aid of a boat, and their natural affinity for watery grounds
grants them large skill bonus when on water.
However, storm giants cannot use wooden equipment in their adventures, 
much as elves shun the touch of iron.  Despite their unpredictability, 
they are followers of the Light.

Storm giants can be the following classes:
Warrior, Berserker, Cleric.
~

#188
-1 STONE~
STONE
 
Stone giants inhabit the wilderness of Aabahran, and live by using their brute
strength to crush their prey when they hunt.  However, much as other giants,
their raw strength makes them very clumsy when it comes to avoiding attacks.
Stone giants are natural wanderers, and are often found alone in places away
from crowds.  They are largely ignorant of cities and laws.
 
Like all giants, stone giants have a size advantage over most adventurers,
and are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants
an innate mastery in bash, body slam, and enhanced damage, although their
slow minds make them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells. Having no 
additonal resistances they also lack any true weaknesses. They are neutral 
in alignment.
 
Stone Giants, unlike the others possess the ability to use boulders as
thrown weapons in certain types of terrain.
 
Stone giants can be the following classes:
Warrior, Ranger, and Berserker.
~

#189
-1 FIRE~
FIRE

Fire giants are found in the mountainsides, especially in volcanic wastes.
Typically living in small villages, they often fight among themselves to
establish power and ranking within their crude communities.  Fire giants
are also known to quarrel with goblins and orcs over living space and
hunting grounds, although they are not smart enough to organize themselves
to fight full-scale wars.

Like all giants, fire giants have a size advantage over most adventurers,
and are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants
an innate mastery in bash, body slam, and enhanced damage, although their
slow minds make them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells.  Like their
name implies, fire giants have adapted themselves to their hot surrounds,
and are thus resistant to fire, and extremely adept with any weapons made
of fire, or causing fiery damage.  However, ice attacks are foreign 
to them, and they are vulnerable to such attacks.  They are naturally evil.

Fire giants can be the following classes:
Warrior, Cleric, and Berserker.
~

#190
-1 HALFLING HALFLINGS~
HALFLING HALFLINGS

Halflings are short, generally plump people, very much like small
humans, averaging 3 and 1/2 feet tall.  Their faces are round and broad
and often quite florid.  Their hair typically curly and the tops of
their feet are covered with coarse hair.  Their typical life expectancy
is approximately 150 years.

Halflings are sturdy and industrious, generally quiet and peaceful.
Overall they prefer the comforts of home to dangerous adventuring.
However, though they may never look for adventure, they have a strange
knack for stumbling across them.  And, more than occasionally,
adventure finds them.  Because of their lives filled with collecting
comforts and trinkets, they have the benefit of above average wisdom, a
result of their life experiences.

Halflings are not forward, but they are observant and conversational if
in friendly company.  They see wealth only as a means of gaining
creature comforts, which they love.  Although Halflings are about the
same height as gnomes, their stout and sturdy build gives them a hearty
constitution.  And, because of their size and light weight as well as
their peace loving nature, they've grown amazingly agile and dexterous,
able to dodge many of the attacks of those who seek to harm them.
Halflings make excellent thieves, as they seek to avoid direct conflicts
by relying on their speed and agility to get them out of dangerous
situations.  They are lacking, however, in strength, due to their small
size and peaceful lifestyles.

Elves generally like Halflings in a patronizing sort of way.  Dwarves
cheerfully tolerate them, thinking halflings somewhat soft and harmless.
Gnomes, although they drink more and eat less, like halflings best,
feeling them kindred spirits.  Halflings are more open and outgoing than
any of the above races, so they get along with other races far better.

Halflings can be the following classes: 
Warrior, Thief, Cleric, Blademaster and Ranger.
~

#191
-1 DEMON DEMONS~
DEMON DEMONS
 
In the Fourth Age of Aabahran, the demon Shadowspawn came from the Chaos Rift
and tore Aabahran and its populace asunder with the screams and torments of
the Chaos Demons. These vile creatures were unlike any Aabahran had seen.
They did not speak a language any knew, and their names were so vile and
repulsive to speak that they were connoted nicknames to describe their
pleasures. Malice, Agony, Lightbane...Many names used by mortals to 
describe the pure evil that had been borne into the lands.
 
Demons are not living beings, but nor are they dead or undead. They are
the result of a thousand damned souls intertwined into a single mind.
Since they are already doomed by the gods they are immune to the curses
you may attempt to bind them with.  Their horribly disfigured bodies are
often covered in thick cloths, and they avoid daylight and gatherings,
often preferring to work underground in the darkness. Having no normal
spoken dialect, they speak only telepathically augmenting their power
with magic in order to be heard by others.
 
Demons are not born into these realms.  Rather a willing mortal submits
his body to Shadowspawn, and if found worthy he is taken over by a Demon
thus becoming one of the unholy race. A tortured mind is often the exact
catalyst he needs to forge a Demon. If, for some reason, you feel you have
earned a fate worse that death, and wish to serve as one of these Dark
Lords, send an application to Immortal with your inquiry. Be warned,
however...They do not tolerate foolishness. Only the truly blackest
of hearts will enter into the Demonic Kin. Be wary.
 
See also: HELP DEMON REQUIREMENTS
~

#192
-1 OGRE OGRES~
OGRE OGRES

As strong as many, and much faster, Ogres are in many ways superior to
the giants they are sometimes mistaken for.  Having similiar frame they
possess increadible metabolism granting them great strength and speed.
They heal at an unheard of rate and posses consitution and health that
far surpasses any other race. This vitality comes at a cost as they are 
quite vulnerable to magic in all its forms.  While they are unwise and
foolish at best, they posses suprising intelligence often making ogres
excelt choice for martial classes such as warrior.  Ogres live in small
nomadic villages moving often as they forage for food and prey.  The 
social order is quite undeveloped and thier language skills leave much
to be desired.  In terms of alignment their race varies, thus all choices 
are possible.

Ogres can become:
Warriors, Rangers, and Berserkers.
~

#193
-1 FAERIE FAERIES FAERYS~
FAERIE FAERIES
 
Extremely intelligent and extremely fast.  The weakness of the faerie
lies only in their lack of strength and stamina.  Their spellcasting
talents are marred only by their inability to use the spells of faerie fire
and faerie fog which are distrupted by faerie's own magical aura.  For the
same reasons they are also immune to those spells allowing a faerie to 
become quite an accomplished thief.  With their superb dexterity and natural 
flying ability faeries are able to travel the realms with great speed as 
they glide silently through out the areas.  
 
Faeries can be the following classes:
Invoker, Battlemage, Thief, and Bard.
~

#194
-1 'HALF-ELF' 'HALF-ELVES'~
HALF-ELF HALF-ELVES

Half-elves are brought about by the merging of elven and human blood.
Shunned by those of pure elven heritage, half-elves usually choose to
live among the more tolerating humans.  As a consequence of their mix
blood, they have inherited a sense of curiosity and creativity from
their human ancestors, and a love of nature and appeal for the aesthetics
from their elven blood.  What they lose in strength and stamina, they
make up in intelligence and agility. Half-elves have also retain the
ability to see unaided in the dark and are most resistant to the affect
of charm.  Due to their curiosity, half-elves are also quick to learn
the skills of their trade.

Half-elves can be the following classes:
Warrior, Bard, Ranger, Monk, Paladin, Thief, Ninja and Blademaster.
~

#195
-1 'CLASS HELP' 'CLASS' 'CLASSES'~
The Forsaken Lands has the following classes
for player characters:
 
  Warrior               0 exp extra       Masters of armed combat.
  Thief                 0 exp extra       Rouges, masters of guile.
  Bard                  0 exp extra       Jacks of All Trades
  Battlemage            0 exp extra       Mages of Battlefields.
  Invoker               0 exp extra       Mages of the Elements.
  Necromancer           0 exp extra       Mages of the Undead.
  Cleric                0 exp extra       Disciples of Deities.
  Healer                0 exp extra       Clerics of Healing.
  Shaman                0 exp extra       Prophets of Suffering.
  Ranger                200 exp extra     Warriors of Nature.
  Berserker             250 exp extra     Warriors of Rage.
  Ninja                 300 exp extra     Masters of stealth.
  Monks                 300 exp extra     Defenders of the Monastery.
  Dark-Knight           300 exp extra     Warriors of Evil.
  Druid                 300 exp extra     Clerics of Nature.
  Blademaster           350 exp extra     Masters of Swordplay..
  Paladin               350 exp extra     Warriors of Divinity.
  
Different classes have different skills and spells.
~

#196
-1 BERSERKER BERSERKERS~
Berserkers are a sect of fighters who focuses more on brute strength and 
the direct approach instead of the complex combat maneuvers of the warriors.  
They are known to have a foul and uncontrollable temper, walking a thin line 
between sanity and insanity.  At times, they are known to be overwhelmed by 
their temper and plunge into a frenzy of rage.  While in this state, a 
berserker is known to inflict massive amount of damage on their opponent as 
well as being able to withstand incredible blows from others.  There are times
when a berserker may be overcome by panic when they cannot see.  During this 
period the berserker may begin to land blows at frantic pace until his panic 
subsides.

At midpoint of their career, the members of this guild choose a focus for 
their deadly rage thus becoming unstoppable juggernauts of fury, or more
controlled zealots able to always calm their deadly anger only to call upon
it once again when it serves them best.

Late in their career they may choose a single weapon type to gain expertise
in, thus becoming more skilled with it then mere common swordsman. Soon after
their choice in Path Focus flowers into frutition and they gain further 
abilities dependant upon their earlier choices.

See also: RAGE, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS, WEAPON EXPERTISE
~

#197
-1 WARRIOR WARRIORS~
WARRIOR WARRIORS

Warriors are a sect of fighters who focuses their training on the
complex maneuvers of the art of combat.  Due to their training, 
they are the elite fighters of the land.  Warriors have the ability 
to wield every weapon effectively and can learn a wide variety of 
offensive as well as defensive skills to fight an opponent.

The profession of Warriors alone has the unique ability to dedicate
themselfs to particular choice of weapons hence gaining an opportunity
to become experts and masters of a given weapon type.  Through out 
their career warriors are given a choice of two weapon types in which
to become experts, and near peak of their power can further select
one more weapon to bring forth unto mastery becoming unmatched in
their skill.

This choice of weapon expertise and mastery further affects their
avaliable choices when selecting from Warrior Lore late in their 
careers, and allows them to grant mercy to their opponents when battling
with a weapon of which they hold mastery.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, WEAPON MASTERY, WEAPON EXPERTISE, MERCY, FLEE
~

#198
-1 SHAMAN SHAMANS~
SHAMAN SHAMANS

Shamans are dark priests who seek to destroy the faith of others often
becoming prophets of death and suffering. Communing their powers from
the Gods and demons of the netherworld they possess a devastating array
of maledictions with which to plague their enemies. Their faces usually 
have a skeleton or demonic appearance and can only live as evils.  

An evil cleric may choose to follow the path of the shaman when he/she 
has achieved the thirtieth rank.  When the time comes, simply go to the 
shaman guild in the nearest city and inquire.

High level shamans who fail to role-play properly may be outcasted.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP EVIL.
~

#199
-1 CLERIC CLERICS~
CLERIC CLERICS

The paths of the cleric are many.  Some become healers and devote their
life to preserving peace and harmony within the realms.  Some become
tainted and use their communing gifts to destroy that same harmony.
This is a class strongly divided between good and evil, and there is no
in between.  Those clerics who follow the light may eventually decide to
dedicate themselves solely to the healer mentality later on in life.
On the other side, those who traverse the path of darkness may one day
choose to follow the path of the shaman.

Whatever path you choose, remember one thing.  Clerics are the servants
of the Gods, and that is where their powers stem from.  Thus they, more
than others, are constantly being watched.  To stray from one's path is
to stray from one's God... and the punishment for doing such cannot even
be described in words.  When your experience has grown sufficiently the
appropriate option will be offered to you.  May your choice be the right
one.

For more help on Clerics choices between Healer and Shaman classes, see
'HELP SHAMAN' and HELP HEALER'.
~

#200
-1 HEALER HEALERS~
HEALER HEALERS
Healer is a profession who devotes their whole life to protection of life.
They avoid violence, with exception of their well known crusades against 
forces of undead.  Due to their devotion, they receive incredible powers 
from their gods to heal and protect themselves, as well as those around
them. 
Healers gain experience through healing and curing others of their ailments.
Their powers of healing extend to such degree that only they of all classes 
have the ability to reverse all effects of death upon a character, including
loss of experience and and constitution through spell of resurrection.
Furthermore a mere presence of a Healer in a group lends safety, as they
will automaticly attempt to save any group member from death, by pushing
them out of the area, and bravely stopping the deathblow with their own flesh.
Also, unlike shamans, they get access to clerical spell of Divine Intervention.

A good cleric can choose the path of the healer once he/she has achieved the 
30th rank.  When the time comes, simply go to the nearest healer guild and 
inquire. High level healers who fail to role-play properly may be outcasted.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP GOOD.

HELP CLERIC, GOOD, OUTCAST
~

#201
-1 DARK-KNIGHT DARK-KNIGHTS DARK~
DARK-KNIGHT DARK-KNIGHTS DARK

Dark-Knights are the embodiments of evil.  They seek to spread pain and
suffering to all, as well as reaping in the gains from a world that they
have weakened.  They have devoted their lives to the study of dark magic
as well as physical combat, making them a formidable opponent to all.

High level dark-knights who fail to role-play properly may be outcasted.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP EVIL.
~

#202
-1 RANGER RANGERS~
RANGER RANGERS
 
Rangers are the men and women who dedicated their life to study of
the land outside the cities.  They are often trackers and hunters who
offer their skills to those who are less skilled in outdoor environments
leading exploring parties deep into wilds of the land.  
 
Capable of blending in with their surroundings and moving silently
through forest, they have also been known to call forest creatures
to their aid.  As they rise in ranks, rangers are capable of focusing
on a particular path in their skills learning unique ability to excel
in ranged combat, tracking, or beast mastery.  Later in their career
they may specialize in weapon expertise of two different types of weapons.
 
HUMAN and WEREBEAST rangers of exceptional dedication to the cause of
nature may choose to joins the ranks of the Druid.  Those who are
interested must be of the 30th rank, and upon reaching it, must inquire
at the Druid's Guild.
 
See also: SELECT, RANGER PATH, FOREST LORE, RANGER LORE, WEAPON EXPERTISE
~

#203
-1 INVOKER INVOKERS~
INVOKER INVOKERS

Invokers is a profession of mages that forgoe the gallantry of other
wizards and use their tallents for channeling raw elemental forces to
create spells unmatched in their power by any other class.  Capable of
altering elements they can enchant weapons and armor, as well as surround
themselfs with elemental shields each with its own function and benefits.
Towards the pinnacle of their ability the are capable of infusing the 
raw arcane energy into common items to enhance their spells and reduce
strain to themselfs to the point where no other class is capable of 
matching the terrifying destructive powers of a fully trained Invoker.
~

#204
-1 BATTLEMAGE BATTLEMAGES~
BATTLEMAGE BATTLEMAGES

Battlemages is the profession of spell casters trained in arts of
battlefields and combat magic.  They frown on Invoker's blatant
waste of energies and use more efficient means to eliminate their
opposition.  Capable of summoning terrifing blades to use for offense
and controling weapons to do their bidding they posses both strong 
offense and fair defense. It is rumored that a well trained battlemage 
can easily hold his own against even the most powerful of warriors.
~

#205
-1 NECRO NECROMANCER NECROMANCERS NECROS~
NECRO NECROMANCER NECROMANCERS NECROS

Necromancers are dark mages who have devoted their studies to the
properties of the undead.  They draw negative energy from the deceased
and use it to their goal.  From their studies, they have learned to
animate corpses and control it as his slave.  They are also able to
fashion golems from the material they have to do them services.  At the
height of a necromancer's powers, he is able to disintegrate another
with a simple point of a finger.
~

#206
-1 THIEF THIEVES~
THIEF THIEVES

  Members of thieves guild walk about unseen to others, their weapons hidden
in concealed sheathes as they hide in shadows of cities.  The paths of their 
life are many; there are those whom only live for the thrill of yet another 
robbery, striking their victims unconscious only to rob them blind.  Others 
live for mischief and pry priceless items from the body of their victim, only 
to replace it with a worthless counterfeit replica.  And there are those in 
the guild hall whom disguise themselfs as members of other professions only 
to use the deadly abilities of backstab and circle stab to bloody their 
weapons in the backs of those who belived they were safe in their guild halls.

  Whatever their path in life, as the thieves rise in power and experience, 
many turn to more devious ways of suprising their victims creating intricate 
traps set about on paths, chests and other location to snare their prey.  An 
aspiring thief may chose a number of traps to learn from various types such 
as booby traps or mechanism thus customizing their own devious style.

Striking from shadows with deadly daggers, or lying patiently in wait for prey
to spring a trap, a skilled thief on the prowl is matched by few in arts of
suprise and guile.

See also: THIEF TRAPS
~

#207
-1 PALADIN PALADINS~
PALADIN PALADINS

Paladins are the embodiment of goodness.  They are holy warriors who 
are empowered by the gods of Light to bring forth goodness throughout 
the realm.  They are noted for their chivalry, the characteristics of
kindness, generosity, mercy, and honor.  Paladins are able to learn an
array of weapon styles as well as defensive skills to aid them in
combat and are given ability to bring down their gods wrath upon their
enemies.  Endowed with healing powers near those of the clerics to grant 
help to the needy, Paladins are capable of both powerfull offense and
defense.

Paladins of any level who fail to role-play properly may be outcasted.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP GOOD.

See also: HELP MERCY
~

#208
-1 NINJA NINJAS~
NINJA NINJAS

  Ninja is a profession of disciplined warriors who shun the heavy
combat of warriors and their ilk, and concentrate on more exotic
stealthy ways of eliminating their prey.  They specialize in use
of poisons and dusts to blind and kill their enemies, while using
their skills to strangle their enemies and further hamper and disable 
them.  The guild  emphasizes stealth and agility, allowing their members
to move unseen, and easily vanish from combat or danger in a puff of smoke
or create deadly decoys of themselves.

Late in their career they are capable of specializing in arts of
Ninjitsu by choosing one of five secret disciplines to further
help them in their goals.  Close to pinnacle of their guild they
become capable of tracking and studying their victims every move
only to remember their weaknesses and strike from shadows to 
assassinate with a single blow.

A ninjas is allowed to set a special alias for themselves which will
identify them if they claim a life of their foe from the shadows.
Many members of this guild have been more known and feared by this
method then their real names.  To do this send an "application" to
immortal with the alias you wish to use.

See also: STUDY, ASSASSINATE, NINJITSU
~

#209
-1 'psionicist requirements' 'psi requirements'~
PSI REQUIREMENTS
  
Classes : Necromancer, Invoker, Battlemage, Monk.
Races   : Illithid, Elf, Half-Elf, Human, Gnome, Avian, Faerie
Level   : 50
- MUST INCLUDE WORDS "psi application" in application subject
- Must be good or neutral aligned. Illithid is the exception
- Cannot be a member of any cabal
 
You must send a scroll of application to "Immortal", scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved. The scroll must bear the title which includes words psi
and application or it will not be considered. If your scroll is approved
you shall be made to know what else is required of you.
 
If you are accepted to the secret society of the Psi, you will be reduced
to the first rank with applicable abilities, health and mindpower. Any
skills which you may be allowed to use in the future will be kept, all
others are forgotten.
 
See also: SELECT, PSI 
~

#210
-1 'ASSASSIN CALL'~
ASSASSIN CALL
Syntax: cast 'assassin call' <victim>
 
 Though most royal houses have long standing pacts with Syndicate,
there are inevitably situations which call for more trustworthy
servants.  Thus each house has at its beck and call its own cadre
of skilled professionals whom are rarely heard, and even less often
seen.
 
See Also: HELP VALMIRAN, MIRUVHOR, RHEYDIN
~

#211
-1 JAIL JAILS~
JAIL JAILS
Syntax: jail <criminal> <sentence> <severity>
	jail <criminal> <execute>  <execution type>
	jail <criminal> <transfer> <new Justice>
	"jail" alone for list of criminals and their cells.
-----------------------------------------------------------	

General Tour of Jails of Aabahran:
  
  Forsaken Lands includes a comprehensive Justice system used to 
prosecute and punish criminals who break the laws of Abbahran.
(Help Laws).   In a case of WANTED flag being issued, the criminal
is hunted down by members of JUSTICE cabal and apprehended through 
bringing the victim to near-death state. At this point he/she will
be stunned and placed in Jail dictated by JUSTICE member's hometown.

Upon apprehension ALL belongings of the criminal are put inside 
a small container marked with criminal's name, and given to the 
JUSTICE who performed the apprehension. A default sentence (NORMAL)
of 20 hours will be issued by default.  The sentence can further be 
changed using "jail" command to following verdicts:

BAIL, EXTENDED, EXECUTION, RELEASE, TRANSFER.

After serving the set sentence or upon payment of set bail, the 
criminal is set free, and the WANTED status removed.  No additional
penalty of lost experience etc. is enforced with exeception being case
of Execution.

Continued in HELP JAIL2
HELP: JAIL2, WANTED, LAW, NORMAL, BAIL, EXTENDED, RELEASE, TRANSFER, 
      EXUCTION
~

#212
-1 JAIL2 ~
JAIL2
HELP JAIL2

Enjoying Your Stay in Jail Cells:
  
  When the criminal is captured by being stunned through combat with
JUSTICE member or any of their charmed followers, he/she is automaticly
placed in the least populated cell of the jail.  The Cells are warded with
powerfull enchantements which place following restrictions upon the mates.

- No violence of any kind.
- No magic or communing to gods is allowed.
- No transportation through arcane  means (recall, gate, teleport)
- NO QUITTING (Read below for some IMPORTANT notes on dropping link)


While you are enjoying yourself alone or with other inmates of your cell
you will notice the following:

- Upon your arrival your health is automaticly set to 25% and your mental
  powers are drained.
- You will not get hungry nor thirsty.
- You will not enter the "Void" due to inactivity.
- You will not disconnect due to inactivity

Furthermore the exit and entrance to the cell is restricted by a magical
forcefield which will prevent movement of all objects with exception of
JUSTICE members.  JUSTICE members may enter the cells for limited amount
of time, before being forced to leave the area.

 *******************************************************************************
** ACHTUNG: If you drop link while under any verdict in a jail cell, there    **
** is small chance that the executioner will grow angry and automaticly upgrade**
** your sentence to an EXECUTION which are carried out regardless of connection**
 *******************************************************************************

For "How to bust out of Jail" read HELP JAIL3

HELP JAIL, JAIL3, WANTED, LAW
~

#213
-1 JAIL3~
JAIL3

So You Want to Escape Alcatraz...

  Each Jail has a JailGuard who's mind serves as a focus for the magical
barriers enclosing the JailCells.  As long as the JailGuard is alive and
well at the entrance of the Jail, the magical barriers will function
and prevent any escape.

  The Jail Guard will automaticly prevent entrance into the Jail by any
unauothrized personnel, and will announce any attack upon its person
to all present JUSTICEs.

**ANY ATTACK UPON JAIL WILL BE PUNISHABLE TO FULL EXTENT OF THE LAW**

  The moment the Jail Guard perishes, the magical barriers will loose 
their focus and allow any prisoners who wish to leave to escape.  Any
sentences still in effect will be canceled on the first hour you spend
outside of a jail cell.  If you choose to remain in your cell when the 
barriers drop, the sentence will be carried out as normal.

**Note that escape from jail would most likely be viewed as a repeated
offense by JUSTICE members.

So in summary:  As long as the JailGuard is present, movement to and from
the Jail and Jailcells is restricted to JUSITCE members only.  Attack
upon those Guards is grounds for immediate prosecution by JUSTICE.

HELP JAIL, JAIL2, WANTED, LAW
~

#214
-1 NORMAL BAIL EXTEND EXTENDED EXECUTE EXECUTION RELEASE TRANSFER~
NORMAL, BAIL, EXTEND, EXECUTE, RELEASE TRANSFER
What You May be Sentenced With While in Jail:
NORMAL: Default sentence given upon apprehension, it may be changed
by Justice in charge of criminal to any other verdict.  Upon serving
this sentence the criminal is released free and innocent.
BAIL:  Criminals given BAIL sentence will serve remaning amount of
time from the NORMAL sentence, except in cases when remaning time
was lower then 5 hours.  During the time on BAIL, anyone including
the criminal can pay the bail using "bail" command as follows:
Syntanx: bail           : shows current bail info.
         bail <gold/cp> : pays YOUR bail in gold or cabal points 
         bail <criminal> <gold/cp> : pays given criminal's bail
         
If the criminal does not pay the bail before end of the sentence
the verdict is automaticlly changed to EXTENDED with similiar severity.
Any time already served is applied towards the new sentence.
EXTEND:  This is a fairly serious verdict which results in increased
stay in our beautifull jails by anywhere from 30 to 60 hours based
on JUSTICE's judgement.  Upon serving the sentence the criminal is
released free and innocent.
EXECUTE:  The harshest of punishments reserved for repeat offenders
and enemies of the Law or Crown.  The JUSTICE chooses out of large choice
of various executions and condemns the criminal to death.  It takes 12 
hours for all to be prepared (criminals are advised to spend the time 
with local cleric of One God) during which the future entertainment is 
announced in the area of execution.  This verdict is the only one that 
results in death and loss of experience.
RELEASE:  The criminal is released on following hour free and innocent.
This verdict may NOT be placed after EXECUTION has been announced.
TRANSFER:  Transfers jurisdiction of criminal over to a new JUSTICE
member.  Only JUSTICE with juridiction over the criminal has power
to affect their fate in our glorious jails.
HELP JAIL, JAIL2, JAIL3, LAW, WANTED
~

#215
-1 JUSTICE~
THE JUSTICE CABAL
  These lawful individuals vow to protect the safety of those who seek 
shelter behind the secure walls of civilization, and bring justice to those 
whose rights have been violated. Formed during a great time of need, the 
Justice Cabal has created to carry out the laws implemented by the Gods 
themselves.
They have been granted the power to flag offenders as criminals,
and the means to deliver justice in their own hands.  Acting as judge
and executioner, their word is the law, and their decision shall be
final.  They shall hunt criminals and prosecute them to the full extent
in the name of justice.

Those interested in joining must be of lawful ethos, have a intimate
knowledge of the law, have a good sense of lawfulness, and have neither
been a criminal nor violated any of the laws.  To apply for a position
as a Justice member, post an "application" to Justice, explaining your 
background, why you want to join, and why you are qualified.  Those that 
are deemed worthy shall be given an interview and might be asked to 
demonstrate their judgment and their determination.  Rangers while often 
used by Justice to track and hunt down the criminals are closely scrutinized.

FOR RELATED TOPICS, TYPE 'HELP LAW'
~

#216
-1 VAMPIRE VAMPIRES~
VAMPIRE VAMPIRES

These creatures of the night have given up their souls to join the legion
of the undead.  Chosen among dark-knights whom are at the rank Legion
Knight, they have been granted great powers by the Virigoth to do his 
bidding.  Through their conversion they have lost the ability to produce 
their own blood, thus must drain those of others in order satisfy their 
hunger and thirst.  As a term of the Covenant, vampires can only use their 
special powers at night and are greatly weaken in the wee hours of the 
morning.  If burned by the touch of sun they must rest in their coffins in 
order to regain their strength.  While resting in their coffins vampires 
regenerate at an incredible rate,  however this also the time when vampires 
never wake to find the stake through their heart.

See also: HELP VAMPIRE REQUIREMENTS, VIRIGOTH, DEEZIL, UNDEAD
~

#217
-1 ILLITHID ILLITHIDS~
ILLITHID ILLITHIDS

Illithids are an evil race of subterranean creatures who are endowed with
vast mental abilities.  They possess the intelligence and wisdom to
match almost any other race above or below the surface.  They have been
known to stun foes with a projected cone of force in combat.  In cases of
emergencies, Illithids enter a state of shock, in which their body divert
their mental resources directly into healing for a limited amount of time.
However, they cannot heal either their body or mind for its duration, and
therefore this is used only as a last resort to ward off death.  Due to their
subterranean nature they are vulnerable to light based attacks, while their 
mental prowess and unnatural metabolism grant them resistance to mental and 
lighting based spells and attacks.

Illithids cannot wield weapons, but they can parry using an innate skill.
They have automatic proficiency in several minor spells.

Illithids can be: Necromancer
Commands for Illithids: CONE, LEECH
~

#218
-1 CONE~
CONE OF FORCE
Syntax: cone
Using their innate psionic powers, Illithids can project a cone of force
with their mind alone.  The force will cause moderate damage to everyone
in the attack range of the Illithid, stunning them in the process.  Though
this requires a lot of mental effort on I part, so the Illithid can only use 
this command once per day.
~

#219
-1 LEECH~
LEECH

Illithids have gained a special skill, in which they wrap their tentacles
around the victim's head, and run an electric current through their
tentacles, penetrating the skull.  Specialized sensors at the tips of the
tentacles reads the feedback of the electric currents, and if successful
they are able to steal the victim's memory temporarily.  The memory is not
lost from the victim.  However, the shock to the head have a chance of
causing disorientation to the victim. With this skill, Illithids can gain
temporary proficiency of spells from illusionists, invokers, necromancers,
and psionicists.  Due to the enormous strain it takes to retain the memory,
the Illithid will be drained for a short while after the affects have worn
off.  Only the more experienced Illithids can use this skill.
~

#220
-1 MINOTAUR MINOTAURS~
MINOTAUR MINOTAURS

Minotaurs are man-like creatures with the upper torso and the foul temper
of bulls.  Although they are strong and tough, their unstable temperament
tends to cloud their thinking and judgment.  As with many beasts, they have
no true goodness or villainy in them, and thus can only walk the path of
Balance. They naturally have chaotic tendencies as well.  In addition,
minotaur berserkers make use of their horns while charging at their opponents 
for additional damage.

As an innate ability of their race, minotaurs are proficient in the use of
axes, and can dual wield any two axes without penalty.  They are also easily
consumed by rage while engaged in combat.  Only the warrior and berserker 
guild will allow minotaurs to join their ranks.
~

#221
-1 WEREBEAST~
WEREBEAST
 
In the first age of Aabahran the time of Bloodletting saw the great armies
of Demons and Undead cut their bloody swath through the lands.  It was also
during this time that a band of forest dwelling folk whom took up their arms 
against these unnatural creatures were blessed with extraordinary abilities
by the gods of Nature.
 
Werebeasts are gifted with the ability to exists as man or one of the four
beats of Tiger, Wolf, Bear or Falcon with which they are blessed randomly
at birth.  Having mostly normal appearance and attributes in their human
form, once transformed the werebeast gains the additional traits and powers
of its beast for the duration of the transformation.  At higher ranks when
its power's have fully matured, the werebeast gains further specific ability
dependant on its hidden beast.

Available classes: Ranger, Berserker

See Also: HELP TRANSFORM, WEREPOWER, REVERT, PROBE
~

#222
-1 ADVENTURER ADVENTURERS~
ADVENTURER

The profession of an Adventurer is unique as its members do not belong to
any specific guild of Aabahran though they may join one at any time. 
Adventurers posses good combat skills as well as rudimentary spell casting
abilities making this class excellent for exploration and learning.  They
are well versed in survival, and equally comfortable in a deep dungeon as a
thick forest.  
 
As an Adventurer:
- You are totally exempt from all Player-Killing (PK) attacks.
- You can join any normal guild available to your race using the "guild" command.
- You can enter, and practice in any guild house.
- You can progress up to the 30th rank.
- You CANNOT hold any limited items ("help rare").
- You CANNOT join cabals.
 
See Also: HELP GUILD, RARE, PK
~

#223
-1 PROBE~
PROBE
Syntax: probe <direction>

An innate skill of the which allows to determine if there is danger in 
the neighboring room.  User's instincts and experience allows for detection
of aggressive mobs and no-exit rooms.
~

#224
-1 MAGIC~
MAGIC

After the utter destruction and recreation of Aabahran, the scholars of the
Second Age have found many new properties of the magical forces through
their studies.  Since they were not described in the ancient texts, new
additions have been made into the lore of Aabahran, and they can be found
in the entries below.

See also: AFFLICTIVE MENTAL MALEDICTIVE PROTECTIVE CURATIVE RESTORATIVE
~

#225
-1 AFFLICTIVE~
AFFLICTIVE

Spells which cause direct damage to one's target are known as afflictive
spells.  Some equipment can better absorb the shock of such spells, so
that one takes less damage from them when one is wearing them.  Also,
those who have greater strength can better endure the sheer force of
these spells.  Notable spells of affliction include wrath and hellstream.
~

#226
-1 MENTAL~
MENTAL

Spells which produce a wide range of magical effects are known as mental
spells.  Some equipment can help one to better resist the affects of these
spells, causing the spell to fail.  Also, those who are more intelligent
can better understand the workings of such spells, and therefore better
avoid its effects.  Notable mental spells include summon, sleep and dispel magic.
~

#227
-1 MALEDICTIVE~
MALEDICTIVE

Spells which use negative energy to cause harm to one's target are known
as maledictive spells.  Some equipment can be used to bolster one's natural
defenses against such spells, causing the spell to fail.  Also, those whose
bodies have higher constitution will find their life force to resist more
strongly the negative energy of these spells.  Notable maledictive spells
include blasphemy, blindness and plague.
~

#228
-1 PROTECTIVE~
PROTECTIVE

Spells which are granted to protect or enhance oneself or another are
known as protective spells.  Protective spells can be granted only to
those in group range, and cannot be granted to those of conflicting
alignment. Notable protective  spells include sanctuary and haste.
~

#229
-1 CURATIVE~
CURATIVE

Spells which heal wounds from combat are known as curative spells.  These
spells can only be granted to those in group range and those who have not
excited by recent combat, except for those of conflicting alignment.
Notable curative spells include cure critical and heal.
~

#230
-1 RESTORATIVE~
RESTORATIVE

Spells which bring one's body back to normalcy are known as restorative
spells.  These spells can only be granted to those in group range and
those who have not been excited by recent combat.  Any who have been
granted these spells may choose to restore another, regardless of
alignment.  Notable restorative spells include cure blindness and
cancellation.
~

#231
-1 SLITH SLITHS~
SLITH SLITHS
 
A race of sentient lizard men, sliths make their living as mercenaries to
others, or adventurers in their own right.  Although they lack the brute
strength of many others in the warrior profession, they are quick and
agileon their feet.  They also gain an additional attack in combat, by
quickly turning to strike or trip with their long tails.  This attack is
automatic, and gains strength as the slith becomes more experienced.  Able
to shed their skin as a decoy when they need to flee from their foes they
can become very defensible if needed.  Since Sliths are cold blooded, they
are not visible on the infrared spectrum as well as see with infravision. 
However despite these common traits, there exists three distinct species of
slith, each possessing their own moral views and alignment.  
 
Evil, or Red Sliths possess a second set of eyelids which allow them to
protect their eyes from kicked dirt.
 
Neutral, or Green Sliths, like snakes and other reptiles, can unhinge their
jaws to swallow corpses whole as a means of nourishment.
 
Good, or Blue Sliths, possess controlable pigmentation within their skin,
allowing them to alter their color, and remain unseen for short periods of
time.
 
Sliths can only join the warrior or thief guild.  Having no ties to others
of their kind, they have a great deal of choice in their ethos and align.
Because they are creatures of the wilderness, they have natural proficiency
in the use of spears.
 
Avaliable classes: Warrior, Thief and Blademaster.
 
See Also:  HELP SHED, SWALLOW, CHAMELEON
~

#232
-3 slith~ CHAMELEON~
chameleon
syntax:

Slith with their reptile-like origin, have the ability to become as the
chameleon.  This provides much needed camouflage by adapting to their
surroundings.  If the slith changes location, they will have to readapt
to their new surroundings.
~

#233
-1 GNOME GNOMES~
GNOME GNOMES
 
Gnomes are a race of small creatures living in the woodlands of Aabahran,
or venturing underground in their burrows.  Having roughly human 
proportions, they are a peaceful lot, and many amuse themselves by 
dabbling in magic.  Because of their peaceful nature, they have found 
great knowledge in the ways of the world, and are the wisest of all 
Aabahran's races.  Gnomes are a contemplative lot, thinking of this and
that, and due to their daydreaming nature, they are vulnerable to the two
types of attacks that assault the mind, Charm spells and Mental spells.
 
Gnomes can be the following classes:
Bard, Warrior, Ranger, Thief, Invoker, Battlemage, and Blademaster.
~

#234
-1 HERALD~
HERALD
 
Millenia ago, during the first War of the Legions, there existed a formal
guild of explorers with a thirst of knowledge so intense, that they would
venture into unknown and hostile territory to sate that thirst for but a
single moment.  But as war often does, this guild, known as Herald, was put
to use in combat.  Acting upon orders of the High King of Aabahran, the guild
of Herald were commissioned as Military Advisors, using their knowledge of
the lands to aid in the war.
 
For the duration of the War, Herald stood beside the King and his court
of advisors, dispensing information that had taken ages to acquire.  Local
myths, legends, rumors...  The King wanted to know everything that would
be of use.  Libraries were emptied, their tomes and scriptures brought
before the King to be perused at his leisure, and in the fray, much was
lost.  They had become little more than a tool.  And as history has shown,
tools that have lost their usefullness, are often thrown away.
 
When the War of the Legions finally subsided, the Heralds were of no more
practical use, and were decommissioned; sent back to the dusty libraries
from whence they came.  But the guild remained.  They sat in the background
and watched idly as the Kingdom collapsed.  They watched as the King was
slain, and all that he surveyed plunged into Chaos.  With the King's death,
their tie to the Kingdom was severed, and they became autonomous, answering
to no one but themselves.  And thus began a period of renewal.
 
Since the dark days of the first War of the Legions, the Heralds have
spared no expense at the acquisition of knowledge.  They are in possession
of the single most expansive library in Aabahran, overshadowing even that of
the Tower of Savant's.  Little passes by the scrutinous eye of a Herald, and
the eyes of Herald are many.
~

#235
-1 MORP MPROG OPROG RPROG~
Introduction:

  MORPs or Mob Obj Room Program is a script language utilized to give life
and reactive ability to various parts of the MUD environment.  Each type 
of morp exists on a separate set of vnums (HELP VNUM) much like objects,
rooms and mobs do.  

Each type of morp can be attached to corresponding type of environment
(object/mob/room) and easily reused.  For example a particular mprog can
be assigned to any number of mobs, with each mob responding in the same
manner when the mprog is activated.

Activation of the morps is dictated by a "trigger type" of the morp which
is set when a specific morp is assigned to a mobile.  Multiple instances
of same morp can be assigned to same mob with various triggers, resulting
in the morp being activated in various situations.

Following is a list of various helps relating to MORPs.

1)  HELP MORP2............Creation, and Editing of morps
2)  HELP ADD, DEL.........Attaching and Deleting morps to/from environment
3)  HELP TRIGGER..........Morp Trigger reference
4)  HELP SCRIPT...........Writing Morp Scripts
5)  HELP SCRIPT2..........Morp script reference
5)  HELP SCRIPT3..........Morp script reference
6)  HELP MPROGS...........Mprog command reference
7)  HELP OPROGS...........Oprog command reference
8)  HELP RPROGS...........Rprog command reference
~

#236
-1 MORP2~
HELP MORP2
note: <required argument> [optional argument]

Creation and Editing of Morps.

Creation:
syntax: edit <mprog/rprog/oprog> create <vnum>
             Above creates a morp with given vnum, and places 
             the user into morp edit mode.
Editing:
        edit <mprog/rprog/oprog> <vnum>
             Above edits a given morp and places user into morp edit mode.
  
Once in morp edit mode:
syntax: code          enters standard OLC editor for the morp script
        list          lists all mprog/rprog/oprogs in the area.

Any changes to a morp are automatically updated throughout the mud.
~

#237
-1 HELP ADD DEL~
note: <required argument> [optional argument]

Once a morp is created, and its script written and entered, it has
to be attached to a given mob/room/object and its trigger specified.
To attach a morp to its corresponding object (oprogs to obj, mprogs 
to mobs etc.) use:

Syntax:   add [vnum] [trigger] [phrase]
           
          vnum:    vnum of the morp to be attached
          trigger: trigger type for the morp (HELP TRIGGER for reference,
                   ? rprog/mprog/oprog for list of available triggers)
          phrase:  argument for the trigger (HELP TRIGGER)

Once a morp is attached, all objects/mobs/rooms are updated with that
morp.  Use mpstat, rpstat, opstat to selectively query the details of 
specific mob/object/room.

To remove a morp use:

Syntax: del <number of morp to remove>
        removes the given morp on the list shown in mob edit.
        
examples:
         add 3000 GRALL 100
         add 3000 SPEECH quest
         del 0
~

#238
-1 TRIGGER TRIGGERS~
TRIGGERS

Following is a list of trigger and their argument/phrases.  Keep in mind
not all types of morps support all of those.  Use ? <mprog/oprog/rprog>
for exact list of supported triggers when editing an object/room/mob.

"OWNER" refers to the mob/obj/room that has the trigger assigned to it.
"ACTOR" refers to the mob/obj/room that set off the trigger.

More on triggers: HELP ACT-TRIGGER     HELP KILL-TRIGGER
	          HELP SPEECH-TRIGGER  HELP ENTRY-TRIGGER
		  HELP TELL-TRIGGER    HELP GREET-TRIGGER
		  HELP RANDOM-TRIGGER  HELP GRALL-TRIGGER
 		  HELP FIGHT-TRIGGER   HELP GIVE-TRIGGER
		  HELP HPCNT-TRIGGER   HELP BRIBE-TRIGGER
	          HELP DEATH-TRIGGER   HELP DELAY-TRIGGER
		  HELP SURR-TRIGGER    HELP EXIT-TRIGGER
		  HELP EXALL-TRIGGER   HELP GET-TRIGGER
		  HELP PUT-TRIGGER     HELP DROP-TRIGGER
		  HELP SIT-TRIGGER     HELP USE-TRIGGER	    
		  HELP LOOK-TRIGGER    HELP SPECIAL-TRIGGER

See Also: HELP SCRIPT
~

#239
-1 ACT-TRIGGER~
ACT: 
  Triggered when a text sent to the owner matches a keyword in phrase.
  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)
Example:
add 300 act kneels
add 300 act bows
~

#240
-1 SPEECH-TRIGGER~
SPEECH:
  Triggered when a text said by the actor and heard by owner matches 
  a keyword in phrase.  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)
Example:
add 300 speech quest
add 300 speech armor of light
~

#241
-1 TELL-TRIGGER~
TELL:
  Triggered when a text sent through "tell" by the actor to owner matches 
  a keyword in phrase.  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)
Example:
add 300 speech quest
add 300 speech armor of light
~

#242
-1 RANDOM-TRIGGER~
RANDOM:
  Triggered on each update of the owner (actor = owner).  Phrase is the 
  percent chance to trigger. (100 always, 0 never)
  Mob and Object update occurs at approx. 30 second intervals.  Room/Area
  update occurs at 1 min. intervals.
Example:
add 300 random 100  
~

#243
-1 FIGHT-TRIGGER~
FIGHT:
  Triggered each beginning of owner's combat round.  Actor is the current
  opponent during the combat round.  Phrase is the percent chance to trigger
  on owner's combat round. (100 = always).
Example:
add 300 fight 100  
~

#244
-1 HPCNT-TRIGGER~
HPCNT:  (HitPerCeNT)
  Triggered on owner's combat round if owner's health falls below the number
  specified in phrase.  (100 = full health, 10 = 1/10 maximum health)
Example:
add 300 hpcnt 75
~

#245
-1 DEATH-TRIGGER~
DEATH:
  Triggered when the owner dies.  Actor is the person that dealt the killing 
  blow. (owner may be the actor).  Phrase is percent chance to trigger.  (100
   is always)
Example:
add 300 death 50
~

#246
-1 KILL-TRIGGER~
KILL:
  Triggered when the owner kills something.  Actor is the mob killed.  Also
  triggered when owner mortally wounds the actor.  (Actor at that point is 
  affected by "mortally wounded" affect)
Example:
add 300 kill 100
~

#247
-1 ENTRY-TRIGGER~
ENTRY:
  NOT YET USED
~

#248
-1 GREET-TRIGGER~
GREET:
  Triggered when the actor walks into the room with owner in it.  The owner must
  be able to see the actor, and cannot be fighting, or be in a position different
  from default_position set in OLC.  Phrase is chance to trigger (100 is always)
Example:
add 300 greet 100
~

#249
-1 GRALL-TRIGGER~
GRALL:
  Triggered when the actor walks into the room with owner in it.  Unlike GREET
  GRALL triggers regardless of state of the owner, its position or if it can 
  see the actor.  Phrase is chance to trigger (100 is always)
Example:
add 300 grall 100
~

#250
-1 GIVE-TRIGGER~
GIVE:
  Triggered when an object is given to the owner.  Actor is the thing that gave
  the object to the owner.  Phrase can be: vnum, name, or "all".
Example:
add 300 give 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is given)
add 300 give sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is given)
add 300 give all         (trigger on any given object)
~

#251
-1 BRIBE-TRIGGER~
BRIBE:
  Triggered when the owner is given amount of gold that is more then or equal to
  amount in phrase.
Example:
add 300 bribe 10000      (trigger only when given 10k or more gold)
~

#252
-1 DELAY-TRIGGER~
DELAY:
  Triggered when the delay on the owner changes from 1 to 0.  Each type of
  morp has ability to set delay on its owner through use of command 
  "delay <time in ticks>".  When the delay timer reaches 0, the DELAY trigger
  is run.  Owner = actor, phrase is chance to trigger. (100 is always)
Example:
add 300 delay 100
~

#253
-1 SURR-TRIGGER~
SURR:
  NOT YET USED.
~

#254
-1 EXIT-TRIGGER~
EXIT:
  Triggered when the actor exists the room with owner in it.  The owner must
  be able to see the actor, and cannot be fighting, or be in a position different
  from default_position set in OLC.  Phrase is the direction that will cause the
  trigger (up, down, east, west, north, south)
  NOTE:
    All morp have ability to use "stop <target>" command, that will cause the
    target player/mob to abort exit in that direction.  Useful for blocking
    certain rooms, and exists unless specific conditions are met.
    Example:  
      room stop $n
  END NOTE
Example:
add 300 exit down
~

#255
-1 EXALL-TRIGGER~
EXALL:
  Triggered when the actor exists the room with owner in it. Unlike EXIT
  EXALL triggers regardless of state of the owner, its position or if it can 
  see the actor.  Phrase is the direction that will cause the trigger (up, down
  east, west, north, south)
  NOTE:
    All morp have ability to use "stop <target>" command, that will cause the
    target player/mob to abort exit in that direction.  Useful for blocking
    certain rooms, and exists unless specific conditions are met.
    Example:  
      room stop $n
  END NOTE
Example:
add 300 exit north
~

#256
-1 GET-TRIGGER~
GET:
  Triggered when the actor uses "get" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".
Example:
add 300 get 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is taken)
add 300 get sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is taken)
add 300 get all         (trigger on any object being taken)
~

#257
-1 PUT-TRIGGER~
PUT:
  Triggered when the actor uses "put" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".
Example:
add 300 put 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is taken)
add 300 put sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is taken)
add 300 put all         (trigger on any object being taken)
~

#258
-1 DROP-TRIGGER~
DROP:
  Triggered when the actor uses "drop" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".
Example:
add 300 drop 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is dropped)
add 300 drop sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is dropped)
add 300 drop all         (trigger on any object being dropped)
~

#259
-1 SIT-TRIGGER~
SIT:
  Triggered when the actor uses "sit", "rest" or "sleep" on an object.  Phrase
  is the chance to trigger. (100 is always)
Example:
add 300 sit 100
~

#260
-1 USE-TRIGGER~
USE:
  Triggered when the actor attempts to use the "use" command onto the owner object.
  Phrase is chance to activate (100 is always).
  Various types of objects can be used and they are checked in following order and
  location:
  1) held item
  2) worn item
  3) item in room
  4) item in inventory

  "Use" command in universal to all objects (wands, staves, and morp objects) and
  both spells (wands/staves) and morp is activated on use.
Example:
add 300 use 100
~

#261
-1 LOOK-TRIGGER~
LOOK:
  Triggered when the actor used "examine" or "look" on the owner object or mob.
  Phrase is chance to activate (100 is always)
  The morp is run AFTER the actor looks at the owner.
~

#262
-1 SPECIAL-TRIGGER~
SPECIAL:
  Special triggers are checked when specific spec_function checks them.  This is
  limited to mobs only, and only to specific functions.  Check with Implementors
  for details.
~

#263
-1 SCRIPT SCRIPTS~
Script commands:
  These are commands mostly used in the if-else-endif blocks to direct the
flow of the morp as well as make logical decisions.  The syntax for use of
the if-else-endif block is as follows:

if condition
  command/s evaluated if TRUE
else
  commands/s evaluated if FALSE
endif

Since the "else" statement is not required, the simple if-endif block 
is as follows:

if condition
  command/s evaluated if TRUE
endif


Break command:
  The break keyword will cause the morp to abort and stop when it is encountered.
  It is useful in controlling the flow of the program especial in conjunction with
  if-else-endif blocks.  Example:

if rand 30
  mob echo TRUE
else
  break
endif
mob echo This is not shown unless preceded by TRUE.


See also: HELP SCRIPT2, HELP SCRIPT3, HELP TRIGGERS
~

#264
-1 SCRIPT2~
What follows is reference of script commands and examples of their use:

COMMAND              EXAMPLE                  EXPLANATION
"rand"               if rand 30               if random number < 30 
"mobhere"            if mobhere fido          is there a 'fido' here 
                     if mobhere 1233          is there mob vnum 1233 here 
"objhere"            if objhere bottle        is there a 'bottle' here 
                     if objhere 1233          is there obj vnum 1233 here 
"mobexists"          if mobexists fido        is there a fido somewhere 
                     if mobexists 1233        is there a mob vnum 1233 somewhere 
"objexists"          if objexists sword       is there a sword somewhere 
                     if objexists 1233        is there an obj vnum 1233 somewhere 
"people"             if people > 4            does room contain > 4 people 
"players"            if players > 1           does room contain > 1 pcs 
"mobs"               if mobs > 2              does room contain > 2 mobiles
"clones"             if clones > 3            are there > 3 mobs of same vnum here
"order"              if order == 0            is mob the first in room 
"hour"               if hour > 11             is the time > 11 o'clock (military time)
"ispc",              if ispc $n               is $n a pc 
"isnpc",             if isnpc $n              is $n a mobile 
"isgood",            if isgood $n             is $n good 
"isevil",            if isevil $n             is $n evil 
"isneutral",         if isneutral $n          is $n neutral 
"isimmort",          if isimmort $n           is $n immortal 
"ischarm",           if ischarm $n            is $n charmed 
"isfollow",          if isfollow $n           is $n following someone 
"isactive",          if isactive $n           is $n's position > SLEEPING 
"isdelay",           if isdelay $i            does $i have mobprog pending 
"isvisible",         if isvisible $n          can mob see $n 
"hastarget",         if hastarget $i          does $i have a valid target 
"istarget",          if istarget $n           is $n mob's target 
"exists",            if exists $n             does $n exist somewhere 
"affected",          if affected $n blind     is $n affected by blind 
"act",               if act $i sentinel       is $i flagged sentinel 
"off",               if off $i berserk        is $i flagged berserk 
"imm",               if imm $i fire           is $i immune to fire 
"carries",           if carries $n sword      does $n have a 'sword' 
                     if carries $n 1233       does $n have obj vnum 1233 

[Continued in HELP SCRIPT3]
~

#265
-1 SCRIPT3~
[Continued from HELP SCRIPT2]

"wears",             if wears $n lantern      is $n wearing a 'lantern' 
                     if wears $n 1233         is $n wearing obj vnum 1233 
"has",               if has $n weapon         does $n have obj of type weapon
"uses",              if uses $n armor         is $n wearing obj of type armor 
"name",              if name $n puff          is $n's name 'puff' 
"pos",               if pos $n standing       is $n standing 
"cabal",             if cabal $n 'whatever'   does $n belong to cabal 'whatever' 
"race",              if race $n dragon        is $n of 'dragon' race 
"class",             if class $n mage         is $n's class 'mage' 
"objtype",           if objtype $p scroll     is $p a scroll 
"vnum",              if vnum $i == 1233       virtual number check
"hpcnt",             if hpcnt $i > 30         hit point percent check 
"room",              if room $i == 1233       room virtual number 
"sex",               if sex $i == 0           sex check 
"level",             if level $n < 5          level check 
"align",             if align $n < -1000      alignment check 
"money",             if money $n > 100        does char have more then 100 gold             
"objval0",           if objval0 $i > 1000     object value[] checks 0..4 
"objval1",
"objval2",
"objval3",
"objval4",
"grpsize",           if grpsize $n > 6        group size check 
"affspell",          if affspell $n 'bless'   check if affected by spell bless
"getdelay",          if getdelay > 1          check trigger owner delay
"iscarried",         if iscarried  $i         if object $i is carried 
"isworn",            if isworn $i             if object $i is worn 
"followers",         if followers $n > 6      charmies follower check 
"objcost",           if objcost $i > 1000     object cost 
"isbloody",          if isbloody $n           check if char is bloody 
~

#266
-1 OLC EDIT~
Syntax: EDIT AREA [create/reset] [vnum]	- Area Creation and Repoping.
Syntax: EDIT ROOM ( [create] [vnum] )	- Room Creation and Editing.
Syntax: EDIT OBJ  [create] <vnum>		- Object Creation and Editing.
Syntax: EDIT MOB  [create] <vnum>		- Mobile Creation and Editing.

Syntax: ASAVE  <world/area/changed/list>	- Save Editing to Disk.
Syntax: ALIST                             - Listing of Areas.
Syntax: RESET  See Help Resets.		- Set Game Resets.

Definition: [optional]  <required>  (combined arguments)

     The above commands are used to expand the game world.  The original
code is based on was written by Surreality and installed in The Isles by Locke.
It was then converted to work with Envy by Jason Dinkel, and ported to ROM
2.3 by Hans Birkeland (Hugin). Port to Rom 2.4 by Ivan Toledo (ver 1.5a).

     Inside an editor, typing COMMANDS lists working commands and ? gives
help. AEDIT and REDIT default to the current area or room. EDIT ROOM RESET
resets the current room.  Most commands with no arguments display syntax.
See also help: AEDIT REDIT MEDIT OEDIT
~

#267
0 ALIST~
Syntax: ALIST

This command gives you a listing of all the areas along with their
vnum assignments and the builder(s) assigned to editing them.
~

#268
0 TEMPERATURE~
precipitation values:
> 35: raining
30-35: sleeting
< 30: snowing

~

#269
0 AEDIT~
Syntax: edit area	 -Enters the editor for the current area.
Syntax: edit area <vnum> -Enters the editor for the selected area.

The follow commands are available from within the AEDITOR:

age <number>        - set the age of the area
builder <player>    - toggle that builder's access
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create              - create a brand new area and switch to it
done                - exits the area editor and returns to normal play
filename <filename> - change the file name for the area (be careful)
name <name>         - change the 'AREAS' name of this area
reset               - resets the current area
security <rating>   - set the security rating for this area
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the area stats
vnum <lower> <upper>- set the lower and upper vnum's
lvnum <lower>       - set the lower vnum
uvnum <upper>       - set the upper vnum
<flags>             - area flags, type ? AREA for a list
~

#270
0 REDIT~
Syntax: edit room		-Enters the editor for the current room.

The following commands are available from within the REDITOR:

commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create <vnum>       - creates a room with a certain vnum
desc                - edit description of room
done                - exists the room editor and returns to normal play
ed                  - type this command for additional extra-description help
format              - format(wordwrap) the room description
name <room title>   - changes the room title
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the room stats
oshow <vnum>        - shows an object with given vnum
olist               - lists objects in this area.
mshow <vnum>        - shows a mobile with given vnum
mlist               - lists mobiles in this area.
<room-flags>        - room attributes, type ? ROOM for a list
<sector>            - terrain of room, type ? SECTOR for a list
<direction>         - see help EXIT, or type <dir> ?
~

#271
0 EXIT~
For exits, type the direction (north/s/e/w) followed by:

dig <vnum>         - creates the room and makes a two way link
link <room vnum>   - make a two way link
room <room vnum>   - make a one way link (use with caution)
key <object vnum>  - makes specified object the vnum of the key required
name <door name>   - makes the door's name/keywords = to the given name
desc               - edit the description of the exit
delete             - delete this exit
<exit-flags>       - type ? EXIT for a list(make exit door, locked etc.)

The exit flags are presented in the following manner.  The capitalized
flags are ones not included in the reset info.  i.e. closed is due to
a player closing the door and not due to the door being set to be closed.

-South to [ 3744] Key: [   -1] Exit flags: [door CLOSED bashed pickproof]
~

#272
0 OEDIT~
Syntax: edit object <vnum>	-Enters the editor for the selected object.

The following commands are available from within the OEDITOR:

addaffect           - applies an affect to an object, no args for help
delaffect           - removes an affect to an object, no args for help
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
cost <gold>         - sets the gold value of the object
create <vnum>       - creates object with specified vnum
done                - exits the object editor and returns to normal play
ed                  - type this for info on adding/editing extended descripts
long                - edit long description (the one in the room)
name <keywords>     - sets the keywords on an object
short <desc>        - sets the 'name' of an object (a sword, a fish etc)
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the object stats
v0 <num>            - sets the value '0' on the object
v1 <num>            - sets the value '1' on the object
v2 <num>            - sets the value '2' on the object
v3 <num>            - sets the value '3' on the object
v4 <num>            - sets the value '4' on the object
weight <num>        - sets the weight of the object
type         	    - type of object, type ? TYPE for a list
extra		    - attributes of object, type ? EXTRA for a list
wear                - where object is worn, type ? WEAR for a list
material            - material the object is made from
~

#273
0 MEDIT~
Syntax: medit <vnum>		-Enters the editor for the selected mobile.

The following commands are available from within the MEDITOR:

alignment <value>   - set the mobile's alignment
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create <vnum>       - creates mobile with specified vnum
desc                - edit the mobile's description (when looked at)
done                - exits the mobile editor and returns to normal play
level <level>       - set the mobile's level
long                - edit long description (the one in the room)
name <keywords>     - sets the keywords on an mobile
shop                - type this command for further information
short <desc>        - sets the 'name' of an mobile (a sword, a fish etc)
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the mobile stats
spec                - sets a mobiles spec proc, type ? SPEC for a list
sex                 - set the mobile's sex, type ? SEX for a list
act                 - mobiles actions, type ? ACT for a list
affect              - mobile affects, type ? AFFECT for a list
ac		    - set the mobile's ac, type ? AC for a list
form		    - mobiles body-form, type ? FORM for a list
part		    - mobiles bodyparts, type ? PART for a list
imm		    - mobile is immune to, type ? IMM for a list
res		    - mobile is resistant to, type ? RES for a list
vuln		    - mobile is vulnerable to, type ? VULN for a list
material	    - material mobile is made from, type ? MATERIAL for a list
off		    - offensive behavior, type ? OFF for a list
size		    - size, type ? SIZE for a list
hitdice		    - dice to toss to get mobile's hitpoints
manadice	    - dice to toss to get mobile's mana
damdice		    - dice to toss to get mobile's hand to hand damage

type 'help HITDICE', 'help MANADICE', 'help DAMDICE' for lists of reasonable dice 
combinations on different levels.
~

#274
0 HITDICE~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles hitpoints.
Suggested values are:

       level:     dice         min         max        mean
         1:       1d2+6       7(  7)     8(   8)     8(   8)
	 2:       1d3+15     16( 15)    18(  18)    17(  17)
	 3:       1d6+24     25( 24)    30(  30)    27(  27)
	 5:      1d17+42     43( 42)    59(  59)    51(  51)
	10:      3d22+96     99( 95)   162( 162)   131( 129)
	15:      5d30+161   166(159)   311( 311)   239( 235)
	30:     10d61+416   426(419)  1026(1026)   726( 723)
	50:    10d169+920   930(923)  2610(2610)  1770(1767)

Diff = max - min.  Mean is the arithmetic mean.
The values in parenthesis are the the standard merc values.
~

#275
0 MANADICE~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles mana.
The values the server generates for merc-type mobs is

  <level> d 10 + 100

where level is the level of the mobile.
~

#276
0 DAMDICE~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles hitpoints.
Suggested values are:

       Level      dice       min      min    mean
        1         1d2+0       1        2       2
        2         1d2+1       2        3       3
        3         1d3+2       3        5       4
        5         2d3+2       4        8       6
       10         2d5+5       7       15      11
       15         3d5+8      11       23      17
       20         4d5+10     14       30      22
       30         5d6+15     20       45      33
       50         5d10+25    30       75      53

Mean is the arithmetic mean.  The values in parenthesis are the the
standard merc values.  (Will be put in when there's time to calculate
them...)
~

#277
0 RESETS~
Syntax: RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> <location on body>    - equips last mobile
        RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> inside <obj vnum>     - store in container
        RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> room                  - store in room
        RESET <number> MOB <vnum> [<max #>]             - load a mobile
        RESET <number> DELETE                           - delete a reset

RESET alone will display the resets in the current room.  The <number> will
be displayed with this list.  Typing ? WEAR-LOC will list possible locations
that an object can be loaded to.  The [<max #>] is the maximum number of
mobiles allowed in this room and will default to 1 if no number is entered.

For resets to be successful make sure that you add them in a logical order.
For example if you are equipping a mobile don't load a container in the room
and fill it with some objects and then continue equipping the mobile.  It is
likely that resets will backfire if they are not carefully entered.

If you wish to reset the room then use EDIT ROOM RESET.  
~

#278
0 MOB_AC~
The values ROM generates for a merc format mob is:

   level      pierce    bash    slash   exotic
     1          95       95       95      95
     5          70       70       70      85
    10          40       40       40      70
    15           5        5        5      55
    20         -25      -25      -25      40
    25         -55      -55      -55      20
    30         -90      -90      -90       5
    35        -120     -120     -120     -10
    40        -150     -150     -150     -25
    45        -180     -180     -180     -40
    50        -215     -215     -215     -55
    55        -245     -245     -245     -70
    60        -275     -275     -275     -90
    65        -305     -305     -305    -105
    70        -340     -340     -340    -120
    80        -400     -400     -400    -150

These values are 10 times what you would put in an area file. This
is because the server multiplies what it reads from file with 10.
~

#279
0 ITEM_LIGHT~
.   value 0    unused
   value 1    unused
   value 2    hours of light available, 0 is dead, -1 or 999 is infinite            
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused
~

#280
0 ITEM_STAFF_WAND~
.   value 0    level
   value 1    max charges
   value 2    current charges
   value 3    spell name
   value 4    unused


An up-to-date list of spells can be obtained by typing:
? SPELLS [ignore/attack/defend/self/object/all]
~

#281
0 ITEM_SCROLL_POTION_PILL~
.   value 0    level
   value 1    spell name 1
   value 2    spell name 2
   value 3    spell name 3
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of spells can be obtained by typing:
? SPELLS [ignore/attack/defend/self/object/all]
~

#282
0 ITEM_ARMOR~
.   value 0    ac pierce
   value 1    ac bash
   value 2    ac slash
   value 3    ac exotic (magic)
   value 4    unused
~

#283
0 ITEM_WEAPON~
.   value 0    weapon class.
   value 1    number of dice to roll.
   value 2    type of dice to roll.
   value 3    weapon type.
   value 4    special weapon type.

An up-to-date list of values can be obtained by typing
? WCLASS
help WEAPON_DICE
? WEAPON
? WTYPE
~

#284
0 ITEM_RANGED~
.   value 0    Type of ammo (? AMMO)
   value 1    Weight capacity of weapon.
   value 2    Number of shots per combat round.
   value 3    VNUM of object required as specific ammunition.
   value 4    special flags.
~

#285
0 ITEM_PROJECTILE~
.   value 0    Type of ammo. (? AMMO)
   value 1    Type of dice.
   value 2    Number of dice.
   value 3    Damage noun.
   value 4    Special Type (? PROJTYPE)
~

#286
0 WEAPON_DICE~
These are the values the server generates automatically when
converting a merc-format mobile to ROM format.  A higher
number of dice gives less variance in damage.  There is no
dice-bonus on weapon dice.

      level:   dice 
        1:     1d8
        2:     2d5
        3:     2d5
        5:     2d6
       10:     4d5
       20:     5d5
       30:     5d7
       50:     5d11
~

#287
0 ITEM_CONTAINER~
.   value 0    weight capacity
   value 1    flags: closeable, pickproof, closed, locked            
   value 2    key vnum
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of flags can be obtained by typing
? CONTAINTER
~

#288
0 ITEM_DRINK~
.   value0    capacity
   value 1    current quantity
   value 2    liquid type
   value 3    poisoned?
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of liquid types can be obtained by typing
? LIQUID
~

#289
0 ITEM_FOOD~
.   value 0    hours of food value
   value 1    unused
   value 2    unused
   value 3    poisoned?
   value 4    unused
~

#290
0 ITEM_MONEY~
.   value 0    value in gold pieces
   value 1    unused
   value 2    unused
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused
~

#291
-1 CHAMELEON~
CHAMELEON
Syntax: chameleon

  Members of the slith race, due to their lizard heritage have
a particular ability to control the pigment of their outer skin
and with great effort perfectly camouflage themselfs in any spot
much like a chameleon.  Due to the fact that any slight movement
tends to destroy the illusion and it requires immense concentration
on the part of the slith, this ability is oft used as a last resort.

See also: KEEN SIGHT
~

#292
-1 'RAGE FOCUS'~
RAGE FOCUS

  As the berserker rises in power and begins to focus upon his chosen
path, they gain an additional ability reflected by their choices from
path focus.

     path focus		         rage focus
	anger			skull crusher
	fury			powergrip
	devastation		bloodhaze

You may gain further help for each skill.

See also: SELECT
~

#293
-2 berserker~ 'SKULL CRUSHER'~
SKULL CRUSHER
Syntax:	automatic	(when haymaker is used)

  Using their skills of focus, the followers of path of anger begin to
strike so quickly and accurately that their haymakers totaly ignore
any shields their opponents may be wearing sending their victim's 
standing spells and teeth flying in shambles.  

See also: HAYMAKER, RAGE FOCUS
~

#294
-2 berserker~ 'BLOODHAZE'~
BLOODHAZE
Syntax:	automatic

  Submerged in murky depths of insanity with a red veil over their eyes, 
the followers of the path of devastation will occasionly ignore blows and
spells that would fry a lesser man to cinders, or hew him apart.  Instead
these madman only roar in pain and continue on their unstoppable rampage
of insanity.

See also: RAGE FOCUS
~

#295
-1 'PATH FOCUS'~
PATH FOCUS

  As the berserker comes to power in his or her guild, they are required to
choose a path of focus for their deadly arts of rage and further hone their
anger towards a certain style.  Three paths are avaliable, and unless chosen,
the berserker will remain only capable of producing the bland, unfocused
rage he has used since his birth.  The following paths are possible:

	path of anger
	path of fury
	path of devastation

You may gain further help for each skill.

See also: SELECT, RAGE, RELAX
~

#296
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF ANGER'~
PATH OF ANGER
Syntax:	automatic

  Those of the berserker guild whom prefer to control the deadly tide within
their mind choose this path to futher learn and practice various techniques
for relaxation and mental focus.  They become capable of always relaxing
out of their raged state even while in combat, and take far less time for
this task then others of their guild.  Later in their career their mental
training and perseverance pays off as they glean advanced techinques of using
haymaker to their advantage.

  Since the memebers of the path of anger always strive to control their anger,
their rage is generaly weaker.

See also: PATH FOCUS,  RAGE FOCUS
~

#297
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF FURY'~
PATH OF FURY
Syntax:	automatic

  Riding the edge between deadly tide of madness and weaker state of anger,
those whom choose moderation and balance.  Their rage is more powerful then
normal, and significantly stronger then one prefered by followers of path of
anger.  Yet they may not relax in combat, even if their stronger anger does
lend itsself to handling two handed weapons.  Followers of this path are 
capable of more effective weapon block, as they channel their rage and fury
into their grasp on the weapon.  Late in their career they further improve
this ability and glean secrets of powergrip.

  Using their anger in moderation, the followers of this path tend to rage
to a state more powerful then unfocused rage, but no where near the state
followers of path of devastation enter.

See also: PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#298
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF DEVASTATION'~
PATH OF DEVASTATION
Syntax:	automatic

  The followers of this path (if they can be called that) are often little
more then madman whom bring their minds into the darkest pits of fury and
pain to achive a state of temporary insanity.  The blows they strike are
capable of crumbling hardneded steel and they seem to ignore even most
grevious wounds.  Late in their careers these furious madman begin to 
occasionly ignore wounds that would cause a lesser man to fall mindless with
pain.  Needless to say skills of relaxation are useless to those whom
prefer this path.

See also: PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#299
-1 'SOUL TRANSFER'~
SOUL TRANSFER
Syntax: cast 'soul transfer' <obj>

  After centuries of using their malformed weapons the guild of Dark Knights
devised this spell to allow transference of power from a malformed weapon
into yet untouched one.  When cast upon an object the spell will form an
unholy channel from a held malformed weapon, and transfer the souls trapped
by the vile device into the targetted weapon.  Thus the new weapon shall
recive the malformed spirit, and contain all the powers, and abilities of its
previous host, albeit at cost to its power as the transfer is not perfect.

See also: MALFORM WEAPON
~

#300
-1 'WARRIOR LORE'~
WARRIOR LORE

  A group of skills developed by various warriors and over time passed
onto the guild in order for others of this profession to benefit.
Only a single choice dependant on your weapon mastery maybe be made.

      mastery				allows
	ANY			shield expertise, shield bash
	dagger, sword		feign, doublesheath
	spear			backcutter
	staff			backcutter, powergrip
	flail			mantis maul
	mace			focused bash
	exotic			weapon seize
	whip			weapon lock
	axe, polearm		powergrip

You may get further help on each of these skills.

See also: HELP SELECT
~

#301
-2 warrior~ 'BACK CUTTER' BACKCUTTER~
BACKCUTTER
Syntax: automatic

  This particular techinque was originaly developed by members of the Warrior
guild whom have held mastery of the nimble and quick staffs.  As their victims
would turn to flee the battle, the warrior would use their primary weapon to 
land a quick blow upon their open back causing great damage.  The skill was soon 
adapted by others but to this day only those holding mastery of spear or staff 
may learn it.

See also: FLEE, WARRIOR LORE
~

#302
-2 warrior~ 'SHIELD EXPERTISE'~
SHIELD EXPERTISE
Syntax:	automatic

 Much like ability to focus on use of a particular weapon type, the warrior
guild may guide their members to further their skills in arts of shield use
beyond that of common warriors.  This dedication allows the skilled warrior to
surpass common men in skill of shield block.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, SHIELD BLOCK
~

#303
-2 warrior~ 'POWER GRIP' POWERGRIP~
POWER GRIP
Syntax: automatic

  After dedicating years of their life to massive, long hafted weapons 
such as axes and polearms, some warriors develop such powerful grasp when 
using these weapons, that their double grip skill is greatly enhanced.  
Furthermore, if someone does manage to disarm them while they wield such 
weapons, they will manage to still hang on to it partially and drop it 
into their inventory rather then the ground.  The only exception to this 
is the skill of weapon seize when used with exotic weapons.  Curiously 
enough, those warriors whom hold mastery of the nimble and light staffs
have also been known to learn this skill.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, WEAPON SEIZE, DISARM, DOUBLE GRIP
~

#304
-2 berserker~ 'POWER GRIP' POWERGRIP~
POWER GRIP
Syntax: automatic

  After dedicating years of their life to massive, long hafted weapons 
such as axes and polearms, some warriors develop such powerful grasp when 
using these weapons, that their double grip skill is greatly enhanced.  
Furthermore, if someone does manage to disarm them while they wield such 
weapons, they will manage to still hang on to it partially and drop it 
into their inventory rather then the ground.  The only exception to this 
is the skill of weapon seize when used with exotic weapons.  Curiously 
enough, those warriors whom hold mastery of the nimble and light staffs
have also been known to learn this skill.

See also: RAGE FOCUS
~

#305
-2 warrior~ 'WEAPON SEIZE'~
WEAPON SEIZE
Syntax:	automatic

  Warriors whom have mastered the use of less common weapons such as
exotics or whips automaticly use this technique when disarming an opponent.
On success the opponent's weapon is whisked out of their grasp, and instead
of falling upon the ground, or to their inventory it is seized by the warrior.
Warriors whom have mastered the use of exotic weapons, have such finess with
these strange weapons, that even weapons which normaly cannot be dropped will
be seized when disarmed.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, DISARM, OFFHAND DISARM
~

#306
-2 warrior~ 'SHIELD BASH'~
SHIELD BASH
Syntax: shieldbash

  Often liked by warriors more used to a shield then secondary weapon, the
skill allows the user to charge at the enemy, and use their shield to bash
them with great force.  Unlike bash or bodyslam however the object is to
cause damage with sheer kinetic force, and such shield bash often results
in crushed wrists, arms and weapons flung out of their owner's grasp.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#307
-2 warrior~ 'FOCUSED BASH'~
FOCUSED BASH
Syntax: focusedbash
	focusedbash <target>

  Warriors who have dedicated their training to the mastery of the mace may
attempt to land a potent blow aimed at the helm or head of their victims.
When landed with a great enough force, and aimed correctly this blow will
stun and confuze the target, hampering his sense of movement and direction.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#308
-2 warrior~ 'MANTIS MAUL'~
MANTIS MAUL
Syntax:	maul 
	maul <target>

  Those warriors whom have spent their life mastering intricacies of using
flails have developed a way to use the difficulty of blocking those weapons
to their advantage.  Using a flail the warrior begins to land a multitude 
of weak blows all about the opponent, concentrating on such vulnerable spots
as face, head and joints.  The final effect of a successful attempt is not
only grievous damage, but often the victim will be overcome by the pain and
the staggering blows will stun or paralyze them for a short while.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#309
-2 warrior~ FEIGN~
FEIGN
Syntax:	feign

  Those of the warrior guild whom have long focused on use of nimble weapons
such as swords and daggers have developed this skill to further gain advantage
over their untrained foes.  When armed with two weapons, the warrior will feign
an attack with his secondary weapon, creating a diversion that when successful
hampers the victim's defenses against the warrior's primary attacks.  Hence
for the round following the feign the warrior's aim and penetration with the
primary attacks will be greatly boosted resulting in guaranteed hits at the 
cost of one of the secondary attacks.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#310
-2 warrior~ 'WEAPON LOCK' WEAPONLOCK~
WEAPON LOCK
Syntax:	weaponlock

  Those warriors who tend to focus on more exotic weapons are capable of
using their unusual abilities to deflect, lock, or otherwise disable their 
opponents weaker arm carrying secondary weapons, or shields.  When successfuly
used the opponent's secondary arm becomes useless forfeiting any attacks, 
hampering ability to flee and negating following defenses: dual parry, second 
parry, shield block, weapon block.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#311
-1 MERCY~
MERCY
Syntax:	mercy

A legendary warrior once gave an elegant demonstration of his physical mastery.
Caging a pomegranate in one fist, he invited the onlookers to pry it from his 
hand. For the length of an hour, six strong and able men writhed in a cluster 
at the end of his arm, their combined sixty fingers unable to budge a single 
one of the hero's five.

While this clearly illustrated the warrior's mastery of strength, the most 
poignant part of the demonstration was when he carefully peeled back the 
rind of the fruit, and revealed that not a single ruby seed had been broken.
~

#312
-2 thief~ 'BASIC TRAPS'~
BASIC TRAPS

Alarm
  A simple alarm trap, it has no function beyond being an alarm. It is simple, 
difficult to disarm, and gives off no indication of being tripped.

Simple
  A simple spring and rope trap designed to spring and smash the victim with
a blunt object of thieve's choice.  Its is crude, and hence always visible
and a toddler can disarm it with ease.

See also: THIEF TRAPS
~

#313
-2 thief~ 'POISON NEEDLE'~
POISON NEEDLE

  There are those who belive that in simplicity lies beauty, and whoever
designed this trap seemed to have belived that phrase.  The trap is very small
often composed of single tiny needle coated with deadly poison, or in more
complicated versions of a spring launched dart contained in tiny vial of 
poison.  Both kinds are made to be fitted onto objects.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#314
-2 thief~ 'ENFEEBLER'~
ENFEEBLER

A devious trap composed of magical spells and mechanical triggers. When setup
the maker may link its function with himself, thus being able to know when
it is activated.  When this occurs the trap creates a field of magical force
that drains the victim's stamina and passes it onto the owner of the trap.
It cannot be dodged, but it is magical in nature.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#315
-2 thief~ 'FIRESEED'~
FIRESEED

A deadly and potent trap created by compressing various compositions of
brimstone, sulphur and then bound with magical enhancements.  It is extremely
small and compact, mounted on objects and all but impossible to disarm.  
When sprung it explodes with fiery fury often turning the victims to ashes.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#316
-2 thief~ 'SNARES'~
SNARES

  This collection of traps includes mechanical traps that are meant to
cause great deal of damage the old fashioned way.  Their design is not
subtle and they tend to be easly spotted, but rather hard to disarm without
getting hurt.

Jagged Snare
  Composed of wrought iron, often with large rusty teeth and a thick chain.  
Perfect for catching bears, ogres, humans and other such prey.

Silver Snare
  Made from a net of silver strands with barbed, jagged edges.  When sprung
the nets rise forth slicing and shredding the victim.  Excellent where
keeping the victim's looks in good condition is not a priority.

Bramble Snare
  The snare of choice in woods and forests, its wooden compositon and thorny
jaws are hard to spot in such terrain.  When sprung the thorns are easy capable
or piercing steel and even enchanted armor.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#317
-2 thief~ RUNES~
RUNES

  Runes are traps made not of wood or metal but of spells woven and cast into
runes that may be attatched or drawn upon any surface.  Often placed on doors
or paths they are almost exclusively damage orientated and always magical.

Blue Rune
  Forged with powers of cold and ice, the rune is perfect for catching supper
in early morning, or to shatter frozen limbs of those who trespass on your 
tower.

White Rune
  Stolen in years long gone, this rune's origin has been a source of ongoing
conflict between the Thief and Cleric guild.  When sprung it uses a self
contained prayer coupled with magical boosters to blast the victim with
forces of holy seremons.

Green Rune
  First used as a prank by one of the students on their duergar Guild Master,
this rune uses a self contained spell to instantenously and temporarly change
its proximity into water, and hurl it at the victim with suprising force.
Ingenius in its ability to wash away the blood and gore of its victim, its
rather liked and favored by noble Houses of Miruvhor.
~

#318
-1 'BOOBY TRAPS'~
BOOBY TRAPS

  A collection of various devices meant to suprise and hurt or maim the
victim, from which two kinds may be selected by an aspiring theif. The
choices are:

	Poison Needle
	Enfeebler
	Fireseed
	Snares
	Runes

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#319
-2 thief~ EYEDUST EYEDUSTER~
EYEDUSTER
  
  Composed of a small packet of rare salts from beyond Dune Sea then
hidden with spells, this trap when sprung hurls the caustic salts
and then guides them with spells right under the victim's eyelids. Masks,
helms, veil, and even gnome goggles are useless as defense against the
enchanted powders.  The unfortunate victim of this fairly difficult
to disarm trap may be left sightless for hours at end. As an added bonus 
the enchantments used on salts notify the creator when this trap is sprung
or defused.

See also MAGIC TRAPS
~

#320
-2 thief~ ANTIMAGIC~
ANTIMAGIC

 A trap as ancient as the oldest profession of the Aabahran, it was developed
just as the guild of Mages was established.  Composed of a scroll of antimagic,
and a small spell to magicly recite it this trap when sprung attempts to dispel
any enchantements present on its victim.  Since the spell is incaned by the
trap's magic mouth spell, it cannot be dodged.  Like all other traps in the
Magical Trap category, it will notify the user when sprung or defused.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#321
-2 thief~ 'AMNESIA CHARM'~
AMNESIA CHARM

  First said to be used by a thief in an attempt to convince a certain
stubborn barmaid that she is his wife. This trap uses a set of poweful 
magical spells to befuddle and confuse its victim's memories.  As an
added improvement it also attempts to isolate the person from any of 
their friends or followers leaving the victim at the mercy of the thief.
Small compact and able to be layered onto nearly anything it is vocal
in nature and cannot be dodge.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#322
-2 thief~ 'BLACKSPORE'~
BLACKSPORE

  While the Thief Guild rarely passes moral judgement, no other device in 
its long history has created more controversy and spilled blood over attempts
to cull and ban its use.

  Wraith Blood, Virigoth's Seed, Death's Touch or more commonly blackspore is
a near invisible spore of an exteremly rare fungus. While it is occasionly
found in dark, evil forests devoid of sunlight, it is almost always present
near shores of the Isle of Souls, and harvested by daring thieves, or healers
who dedicate their lives to destroying this vile fungus.

  Normaly dormant and often carried on the wind, or objects small and large
it almost instantenously matures when in near proximity of any living thing.
Then a slight motion or a gust of wind sets it off releasing the most foul
and potent plagues known to mortals.  Whole villages are said to be wiped
clean by this vile mushroom, and far more thieves have died to it then
have used it successfuly.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#323
-1 'MAGIC TRAPS'~
MAGICAL TRAPS

 A collection of traps that are not only magical in nature, but more importantly
use powerful enchantements and spells to achive their use.  An aspiring 
thief may select two of these devices out of the following list:

	Eyedust
	Antimagic
	Amnesia Charm
	Blackspore

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#324
-2 thief~ CHESTBUSTER~
CHESTBUSTER

  A recent invention by one of the members of the Thief guild, this
trap is a marvelous blend of magical and mechanical components.  Fused
into a tiny metalic container filled with shredded old armor is a minature
spell of air pocket.  The round container itself is either set with
spell of invisibility when placed on small or large objects, or with
spell of flight when set on exits.  When tripped the container flies
forth towards its victim, guided by its magic to penetrate deep into
the flesh near lungs or stomach.  Then the spell of air pocket activates
not only hopefully exploding the victim's chest but also riddling the
poor sod and anyone in close vicinity with splendid fountain of blood, 
gore and the metal junk within the container.

The trap was a wild hit with the thieves everywhere and stories of
"suprise birthdays" and "smashing dinners" cut short by the gore
of the victim's chest exploding are a common talk in the guild.

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#325
-2 thief~ 'BRAMBUS NEEDLER'~
BRAMBUS NEEDLER

(An excerpt from a small scroll distributed by what appeared to be a giant 
flying waterskin above Rheydin)

...
  Are you TIRED of those LAZY guards asking for even MORE MONEY!?
  Is that Troll infestation cutting into your PROFIT!?
  Did your spouse CHEAT ON YOU!?

  Then have no fear! Brambusworks are here!

  Brambus Needler is the LATEST and GREATEST from Brambusworks of Tarandue
  in SELF-AIMING, CHEAP, RELIABLE guard-tarps!  And for LIMITED TIME 
  we offer YOU the chance to own this SPECIAL SELF-RELOADING edition, 
  MITHRIL plated guard-trap with PERSONAL autograph of Master Brambus himself!

  Comes with Scroll of Instant Assembly for that quick and painless setup,
  Friend or Fiend (FOF) enchantement, and with this LIMITED offer with
  LIFETIME supply of ammunition!

  So what are you waiting for! Quaff a HASTE potion and come grab one NOW!
...
You get a headache just be remembering that annoying scroll...

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#326
-2 thief~ 'WEBCASTER'~
WEBCASTER

(An excerpt from a giant scroll that floated above Miruvhor for three days)
...
  Did that faerie help itself to your GOLD again?!
  Is that flying KNIGHT spying on your HOLDINGS?!
  Do you want that Princess caught with her LOOKS INTACT?!

  Then HASTEN to Brambusworks of Tarandue!

  The WEBCASTER is the LATEST and GREATEST from the Master Brambus himself
  in quick, reliable means to STUN and CAPTURE whatever you want!

  And for LIMITED TIME we offer you this SPECIAL-EDITION Webcaster, Onyx 
  Plated for that UNBEATABLE black look, ENCHANTED with the SELF-AIMING
  FRIEND OF FIEND (fof) spells that will never fail, and with Scroll of
  Saving so you may save more GOLD!

  So what are you waiting for! Quaff a HASTE potion and come grab one NOW!
...
You get a headache just be remembering that annoying scroll...


See also: MECHANISMS
~

#327
-2 thief~ 'DEVIL WHEEL'~
DEVIL WHEEL

  Shown to select members of the Thief Guild, the Devil Wheel is a an enigma
of questionable use or purpose.

  Designed by the Master Assassin Zenizen at the height of his demonic 
possesion, the contraption is composed of a hundred or more tiny parts
dispersed around the area and all but invisible to an untrained eye.
When triggered, these tiny grain sized parts seem to come together as if
by magic, (yet no spells have been detected on the trap by even the most 
skilled Psionicists) and form what appears to be a giant pentagram about
the victim.

The mechanism, spent as it was while Zenizen was still alive, seems to do
nothing now except that, leaving its effect a mystery unsolved.

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#328
-1 MECHANISMS~
MECHANISMS

The most complex of traps, often requiring hours to complete are contained
within this group.  Their effects are often unique and deadly, and they
last far longer then any other traps.  Only one may be selected by a thief
and their secrets are guarded with a deadly veil mystery.

	Chestbuster
	Brambus Needler
	Webcaster
	Devil Wheel

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#329
-1 'THIEF TRAPS'~
THIEF TRAPS
Syntax:	trap <trap> <object>	:set the given trap on an object
	trap <trap> <exit>	:set the given trap on an exit/door

  The Hallmark skill of the Master Thieves, this particular discipline
allows the user to construct and set various little ingenious devices aimed
usually towards maiming, killing, or otherwise disabling whoever happens
to set the little devil off.

  While the specific selection of traps to use varies due to specialization 
within the thief guild, each trap has some common general properties such 
as its duration, and if it can be set upon [E]xits/doors, [O]bjects, or [S]mall
objects.  Traps set on Exits are tripped when the door is opened, or someone 
steps through the exit.  Those set on objects are tripped when the object is 
picked up, or used in anyway (opening a chest for example).  Only traps 
designed to be Small, can be set up onto objects that may be picked up.

  The traps respect the PK range, and cannot be seen, defused, or tipped by
those whom the thief cannot harm including themselfs.  Most traps are 
destroyed when tripped or defused, but will exist untill their duration
expires, or their owner leaves the lands.

A thief may at any time have maximum of two active traps.  If a third tap is made
the oldest trap in existance will fall apart.

See also: TRAPS, BASIC TRAPS, DEFUSE, DETECT HIDDEN, PK
~

#330
-1 PLANT~
PLANT
Syntax:	plant <item>		:attempts to plant or swap an item
 	plant <item> sec	:attempts to plant item into its secondary spot
	plant <item> <for item> :swaps an item for the second item

A rather devious albeit limited ability, the plant skill allows the
thief to directly trade or plant items on their victim's body.
If two objects are specified then an attempt is made to trade them
for eachother without the victim even noticing.  If only one
object is specified an attempt is made to put it on victim's body.

When an object is being swapped, the difference in their weights has large
bearing on your chances of success.  If the weights are close enough, it
is almost impossible to fail, hence skilled thiefs often leave their
victims in rags, rather naked while they walk away loaded with loot.

See also: PRY, APPROACH
~

#331
-1 APPROACH~
APPROACH
Syntax: approach <victim>	:approaches the future donor of goods

  In order for a theif to pry or plant items from their chosen donor's 
selection, they must approach their victim first.  Then they may proceed
to pry or plant items, with each attempt contributing to bringing the victim
closer to the waking world.  The rank of the thief has a large bearing on how
'light' their touch is, hence a master thief may afford himself more failures
or steal more items then his lower ranked counterpart.

See also: PRY, PLANT
~

#332
-1 PRY~
PRY
Syntax: pry <weight> <object>	:pry the object while guessing its weight
Weight: weightless		:object weights nothing or next to nothing
	light			:a light object, even a faerie can lift it
	medium			:a weight of an average human weapon or armor
	heavy			:very heavy, examples include platinum or red dragon armors


  The second defining skill of thieves, the ability to pry allows a skilled
thief to literally steal a shirt from their victim's back.  In order to attempt
this risky procedure, the thief must approach its victim first.  Once in
near proximity of it victim, the thief may pry items off the person's body
by first judging the weight as to apply the proper amount of force and
finesse.

Thus, the <weight> is one's judgement of how heavy the item is, while <object>
is the item in question.  The thief then begins the careful maneuver of
attempting to remove the item and put it in their inventory where it belongs.
A guess not close enough to the true weight of the object will hamper the
chances to the point of failure, while giving considerable bonus for close
guesses.

See also: APPROACH, PLANT
~

#333
-1 DOUBLESHEATH 'DOUBLE SHEATH'~
DOUBLESHEATH
Syntax:	sheath <obj>	: double sheathes
	sheath <obj> sec: double sheathes to secondary sheath

  Certain professions in Aabahran are trained in storing secondary
weapons on their bodies, either in regular sheathes or other compartments.
Those skilled in doublesheath may thus place a weapon aside while they hold 
another weapon in their hands.  This sheathed weapon will be drawn forth 
automaticly if the corresponding wielded weapon is lost, regardless of 
circumstance.  Doublesheathed weapons may also be switched or rotated on 
command with 'draw' command.

NOTE:  A thief or ninja well versed in skill of throwing can hide their
daggers or shurikens in one of the sheaths, and automaticly throw them 
when about to murder their victim, or when their mark flees from battle.

See also: SHEATH, RANGER LORE, WARRIOR LORE, NINJITSU, THROW
~

#334
-2 ranger~ 'RANGER LORE'~
RANGER LORE
 
  A group of skills developed by various rangers over time and passed
onto the guild in order for others of this profession to benefit.
Only a single choice maybe be made out of the following four skills.
 
  Archery:     Marksman
  Tracker:     Concealment
  Beastmaster: Horde
 
See also: HELP RANGER PATH, FOREST LORE
~

#335
-2 ranger~ BEASTMASTER~
BEASTMASTER
Syntax: automatic

  Some rangers after spending years in forests and wilderness develop
a special kinship with those whom call it home.  Able to harness the
trust and loyality of animals whom for so long they have respected
and protected, these beastmasters find it easier to call on beasts
of the wild, and tend to summon more poweful allies.

See also: BEAST CALL, RANGER PATH, ORDER COMMAND
~

#336
-2 ranger~ FLETCHERY~
FLETCHERY
Syntax:	fletchery <projectile type>

  Developed by rangers, whom spending extended amounts of time away from
civilization required reliable means of replinishing their arrows; this
skill was quickly extended and improved by others to include every type
of projectile known to mortals.
A skilled user of this skill may easly create specific type of projectiles
to be used with his ranged weapons.

See also: FOREST LORE, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#337
-2 ranger~ ARCHERY~
ARCHERY
Syntax: automatic

  The principles of archery focus on the finer principles of using various
ranged weapons.  Those whom posses this skill can fire their weapons at longer
range and with greater accuracy, especially under the stress of combat.

See also: RANGER PATH, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#338
-2 ranger~ BOWYER~
BOWYER
Syntax: stringbow <ammo type>
 
Similiar to fletcher, a skilled bowyer is able to construct ranged weapons from
basic materials avalible about them.  The bowyer can construct the weapon to
fire specific projectile type though the weapons are restricted to use by
rangers only.
  
See also: FOREST LORE, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#339
-1 'WEAPON EXPERTISE' 'SWORD EXPERTISE' 'DAGGER EXPERTISE' 'EXOTIC EXPERTISE' 'SPEAR EXPERTISE' 'MACE EXPERTISE' 'AXE EXPERTISE' 'FLAIL EXPERTISE' 'WHIP EXPERTISE' 'STAFF EXPERTISE' 'POLEARM EXPERTISE'~
WEAPON EXPERTISE
  A select few professions of Aabahran are so focused and dependant on their
use of weapons that over years of use of particular type they develop a 
sense of understanding of its use above what a common men or women are
capable of.  Armed with such expertise in the weapon class, they may
progress beyond proficiency of common mortals in that weapon class.
See also: WEAPON MASTERY, WEAPON, SELECT
~

#340
-1 'WEAPON MASTERY' 'EXOTIC MASTERY' 'SWORD MASTERY' 'DAGGER MASTERY' 'SPEAR MASTERY' 'MACE MASTERY' 'AXE MASTERY' 'FLAIL MASTERY' 'WHIP MASTERY' 'STAFF MASTERY' 'POLEARM MASTERY'~
WEAPON MASTERY

  There are those in the guild of warriors whom have spent all their life
focused upon the use of a single weapon type.  After years of use and 
devotion they begin to develop an inner feel for the weapon's fighting
style resulting in such skill and understanding of its technique that
their proficiency with it may rise far above normal.

See also: WEAPON EXPERTISE, WEAPON, SELECT
~

#341
-1 ENEMY 'ENEMY RACE' 'RACIAL ENEMY'~
RACIAL ENEMY
 
  Rangers due to their extensive hunting habits are allowed
to choose a particular race they are adept at hunting.  When
faced in combat against this race, the ranger will do more
damage, and be better able to hit the enemy.  
 
Keep in mind however, that any member of this race will attack 
a ranger ON SIGHT.
 
See also: HELP RANGER
~

#342
-2 ranger~ 'RANGER PATH'~
RANGER PATH
 
 As they rise in ranks, rangers may select a particular specialty
which will result in further unique skills that they may learn.
 
  Archery:     Ranged weapons and their use.
  Tracker:     Tracking, and forest skills.
  Beastmaster: Greater control over forest creatures.
 
See also: HELP FOREST LORE, RANGER LORE
~

#343
-1 SHOOT~
SHOOT
Syntax: shoot <target>
	shoot <direction> <target>

Users of ranged weapons can discharge their implements of remote destruction 
using this command.  You must have a ranged weapon and the proper ammunition
equipped before using this command.  When the "shoot <target>" command is used
the nearest avaliable target matching the name will be shot at.  You may
specify the direction in which to aim using "shoot <direction> <target>"  This
will fire at the closest matching target in that direction.

See also: FIRED WEAPONS
~

#344
-2 ranger~ 'FOREST LORE'~
FOREST LORE
 
 Depending on their particular choice in RANGER PATH, a ranger
may select following skills.
 
  Archery:     Bowyer, Fletchery, Rapid Fire
  Tracker:     Throw, Forestwalk, Doublesheath
  Beastmaster: Horn of Nature, Pack Call, Group Herb
 
See also: HELP RANGER PATH, RANGER LORE
~

#345
-1 'FIRED WEAPONS' 'RANGED WEAPONS' RANGED~
FIRED WEAPONS

  Some professions of Aabahran choose to focus and excel in use of
ranged weapons such as bows, crossbows, and other kinds of devices
meant to deal death at safe (to the user) distance.  Those classes 
specially trained in the effective use of these weapons in combat 
posses the fired weapons skill.

 In order to successfully discharge a ranged weapon you must do
the following:
- Equip a ranged weapon.
- Equip ammunition which the weapon uses.
- Possess the fired weapons skill.
- Use the "shoot" command, or enter combat.


See also: SHOOT, AUTOFIRE
~

#346
-2 ninja~ NINJITSU~
NINJITSU

  A collection of various skills collected by the guild of Ninjas
over ages to help them in their various tasks.  A pupil of high
enough rank may chose to specilize in only one area out of the
following skills.

	Falcon Eye
	Death Kiss
	Doublesheath
	Shadow Arts
	Lotus Scourge

For further help on each skill use "help" command.
See also: SELECT
~

#347
-1 'LOTUS SCOURGE'~
LOTUS SCOURGE
Syntax: automatic

  The secrets of creating the most powerful poisons and toxins
have all been used in creating this deadly substance.  The user
possesing this knowledge is capable of crafting poisons so potent
that legends tell that a close cousin of this formula was the very
poison used to rob King Cormac of his life by servants of Conclave.

See also: POISON, POISON SMOKE, ENVENOM
~

#348
-1 'SHADOW ARTS' 'SHADOW STRIKE'~
SHADOW ARTS
Syntax: automatic

  Developed by the guild of ninjas to help combat the growing number
of their heavly armored enemies in ranks of warriors, this skill
enables a user to bypass an opponents armor and strike various
nerve points upon his body while in direct combat.  The effects
of these malicious attacks are various and tend to quickly 
accumulate to a dangerous level.

see also: NERVE
~

#349
-1 PUGIL~
First developed by the guild of ninjas, this advanced form
of staff fighting quickly spread into the ranger guild as well.
A user of this skill is capable of holding a staff in such way
as to quickly make blindingly fast attacks with both ends.
Hence while holding a staff with two hands, a user of pugil
will use the staff as a primary and dual wielded weapon at
the same time, though at a slight cost to the number of attacks.
 
see also: DUAL WIELD
~

#350
-1 'PSIONIC CONTROL'~
PSIONIC CONTROL
Syntax: cast 'psionic control' <element>

Using their methods of concentration the psionicist can focus
the powers of psionic blast unto a single class of elemental 
power.  Once cast, psionic control will cause most of the psionic 
blast constructs to be created from that elemental even though
the ones controlled into chosen element tend to be slightly 
weaker then those naturaly created.  

See also: HELP PSIONIC BLAST
~

#351
-3 undead~ LIFEDRAIN 'LIFE DRAIN'~
LIFEDRAIN
Syntax: lifedrain <victim>
	lifedrain

The undying to whom food and water are useless, feed upon the living to
maintain their existence upon the Prime Material plane.  Shambling towards
their victims the dead leech life and vitality with their touch transferring
it to themselves to stave off their never ending hunger.  The vile touch of
undead while only a mere feeding tool at first, grows in power with the rank
of the undead.  It soon gains capability to leech the life and mana from its
victim, then begins to negate vitality and finally may even paralyze its
target.  

See also: HELP UNDEAD 
~

#352
-4 cabal~ FADE ~
FADE (Min 100 cps)
Syntax: automatic

Members of Syndicate may fade into a slightest absence of light and move as
unseen and unheard ghosts towards their target.  Fade is utilised automaticly
to cover any sign of entrance or exit from an area on success.  Further it
will also allow you to avoid recognition by shopkeepers while [`1WANTED``] 
though it has no effect against the more dilligent Justice guards.
As fade depends upon  darkness and shadow, you will be severly hampered in 
broad daylight.  This is the only Syndicate ability that does not require any 
cps to use.

See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#353
-4 cabal~ CONCEAL~
CONCEAL
syntax: conceal
	conceal full

To protect their identities from those who would seek to unmask them, members
of Conclave may conceal themselfs with thick, hooded cloaks covering any
of their features.  While concealed, your true identity will be protected
and not even a glimpse of your description, or equipment may be seen.
Members of Conclave will automaticly recognise each other throuch secret
insignia, unless full concealment is used.  Take note however that Justice
cabal and their special guards will attack hooded figures on mere sight.

The heavy cloak may slip from stress of combat, which will cause the concealment
to fall within short time after.  Using the skill against while concealed
will remove the concealment, allowing it to be renewed.  Elders of Conclave
conclement is bound with enchantements to prevent it from slipping in combat.
~

#354
-4 cabal~ UNSEEN~
UNSEEN
syntax: unseen <target>

Granted limited control over those creatures residing in the Limbo, those
who serve Conclave may call upon the Unseen, spies of Virigoth to gaze
from the lands of the dead and reveal the location of particular target.
For substantial cost the unwavering eyes of the dead, will reveal the target
regardless of any enchantements affecting them.  Those who are of power
higher then the user of this skill will be difficult to spy on, and the
Unseen are reluctant to serve against their own bretheren of unlife.

Some rooms may render even the gaze of Unseen useless.
~

#355
-4 cabal~ 'DEATH SHROUD'~
DEATH SHROUD
syntax: cast 'death shroud'

The greatest of powers granted by Virigoth to servants of Conclave, this
spell will allow the caster to temporaly enter the outer layers of Limbo
and disappear from sight of all on the mortal plane.  While in the lands 
of the dead, the caster will not heal nor regenerate in any way or form,
and slightest actions will break the enchantement returning the user to
the mortal plane.  While so shrouded in the lands of the dead, the caster
will only be seen by members of Conclave.  Leaders of Conclave are rumored
to have limited abilities to traverse and move in the limbo unharmed and 
untouched.
~

#356
-1 RESURRECTION RESURRECT~
RESURRECTION RESURRECT
syntax: commune 'resurrection' <corpse>

The single most powerfull healing prayer known, it was gifted to Healers
of the land, by immortal Palison, in rewards for their service against
forces of Virigoth.  When cast upon remains, the spell has ability to 
bring back the spirit, reversing all effects of death from the recipient.
Experience lost in the limbo of unlife, along with health and constitution
is returned, as the ghost of the victim is breathed back into the corpse.

While successfull resurrections have been attempted for as long as 24
hours after exitus, the amount of experience that is lost in the lands
of the dead increases with time.  Successfull attempts few hours after
death, often return the deceased to life in perfect condition.

NOTE: The person being resurrected must still be a ghost, and is given
a choice to "Accept" the resurrection for small amount of time after
the spell is cast.  If they do so, and the reminas are still in existance
they are resurrected at the spot of their demise, and returned to good 
health even though they will feel unnatural calm for next day.  A person
who accepts resurrection soon looses their ghost status.  Condition loss
due to death is only reversed by this spell in case of NPC deaths.

HELP HEALER
~

#357
-1 `CONTINUAL LIGHT`~
CONTINUAL LIGHT
syntax: cast 'continual light'
        commune 'continual light'

Continual light creates a bright ball of light that can be held
and used to illuminate dark rooms.
~

#358
-2 psionicist~ 'MENTAL KNIFE'~
MENTAL KNIFE		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
syntax: cast 'mental knife' <target>

Psionicists have the unique ability to cast a powerful spell that would
cut through an opponents' psyche and mind like a searing knife.  If victim
fails to save they will be unable to fashion any beneficial spells for short
while.
 
See Also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#359
-1 'VEIL OF DARKNESS' VEIL~
VEIL OF DARKNESS
syntax: cast 'veil of darkness' <target>

A spell which summon shadows and darkness about the victim, forming tall
walls of impenetrable darkness.  The victim of this spell will be unable
to see anything except things in near proximity.  While people and objects
in immediate area can bee seen, details about ones area, surroundings 
and even immediate location will be impossible to gleam through the shadows.
~

#360
-1 'SEQUENCER'~
SEQUENCER
syntax: sequncer add <spell name>
	sequncer use

Some of those magicly inclined have found a way to inscribe a power of 
a spell into a rune held stable by aracane forces.  Thus due to rune's
ability to call forth such spells in the sequence they were stored, the
rune carries the name Sequencer.  The user may store any defensive
spell into the sequencer as long as the incanation is not too powerfull.
Up to 5 cantrips may be thus stored, and released upon the will of caster
at not cost, nor delay.  Note however that the cost to store a spell into 
the rune is far more then normal.
~

#361
-1 'FOREST MIST'~
FOREST MIST
syntax: commune 'forest mist' <target>

Druids have learned the ability to command the forest to engulf the target
in a sea of flora. The target will be disoriented and confused, losing all
sense of its whereabouts in any terrain with significan vegetation or humidity. 
Ancient scrolls speak of powerful druids bringing their enemies into the mist, 
some never to return.
~

#362
-1 'THUNDER STORM'~
THUNDER STORM
syntax: commune 'thunder storm' 

Thunder storm allows the druid to call upon the wraith of nature.
Torrential rains and lightning will harm all in close proximity to 
the caster. The skill of the druid determines the strength of the storm.
Legend speaks of warring druids using the thunder storm to clear hordes
of those that anger them, though this is oft thought only to be rumor.
~

#363
-1 'CONTROL FAUNA'~
CONTROL FAUNA
syntax: commune 'control fauna' <target>

A skilled druid is able to call upon the servants of the earth to rise and
bind the target to the ground. The target will find itself unable to fly
for a short period of time, enabling the druid advantages in combat.
~

#364
-1 'SHIELD OF THORNS'~
SHIELD OF THORNS
syntax: commune 'shield of thorns'

The shield of thorns creates a magical barrier of thorns to protect and
obey the caster. Those in direct combat with the casting druid will find
it near impossible to harm the druid without being hindered and damaged by
the thorns.
~

#365
-1 'ARMS OF GAIA'~
ARMS OF GAIA
syntax: commune 'arms of gaia'

When called by a skilled druid, the mother and protectorate of nature has
been seen to embrace the druid with the embodiment of the forest.
Providing ample protection to one so inclined.
~

#366
-1 'LIFEFORCE'~
LIFEFORCE
syntax: commune 'lifeforce'

With the study of ancient scrolls and rituals, druids have the ability to
grant the protection of nature unto himself and others. The green aura of
natures lifeforce will provide protection not often seen with the lands.
Indeed, many a druid have been seen to endure inhuman amounts of damage
while within natures embrace. Healers of the land are known to call it
Gaia's blessing, and natures sanctuary.
~

#367
-1 'CIRCLE OF PROTECTION'~
CIRCLE OF PROTECTION
syntax: commune 'circle of protection' <red, green, white, black, blue>

A ritual discovered by ancient druidic cultures, the circle of protection calls
upon the forces of nature to protect the caster from a certain aspect of
the lands ailments. The red and blue circles have been rumored to provide
near immunity to the forces of the elements, whereas the circles of white
and black are known to guard against zealous followers of the principles
of the gods, good and evil mean nothing to the forces of nature. The green
circle bestows upon the druid some of the peace of the forest slowing and
negating some of the effects of yearning.
~

#368
-1 'TREEFORM'~
TREEFORM
syntax: commune 'treeform'

Only the most skilled druids are able to alter their physical being and
become one with the forest. In such a state a druid is near impossible to
discern from his surroundings, and carrys the blessings of Gaia. In this
form, the druid is bereft of the ability to perform taxing actions such as
engaging in combat and the like, and pays upkeep in form of mana to hold
his or her form.
~

#369
-1 'DELUGE WATER'~
DELUGE WATER
syntax: commune 'deluge water' <target>

A druid can create a great deluge of water. By focusing this energy into
a small cube, the druid is able to intensify the power of the water,
causing it to do great harm to those in its path.
~

#370
-1 'RESTORATION'~
RESTORATION
syntax: commune 'restoration'
syntax: commune 'restoration' <target>

A powerful spell derived from the ancient texts of druidic culture, the
ritual of restoration is rumored to remove specific ailments affecting
the caster. Skilled druids have been seen to flee from battle, only to
return untouched by the maledictions of combat.
~

#371
-1 'HEAL MANA'~
HEAL MANA
syntax: commune 'heal mana'

through intense meditation, those of the druidic following are able to
restore a portion of their mental power. Such a ritual takes prodigious
patience and time to achieve a desirable result.
~

#372
-1 'TRAP OF SILVANUS'~
TRAP OF SILVANUS
syntax: silvanus

The ancient druid Silvanus left scrolls detailing the inner complexities
of a trap. Originally designed to keep unwanted visitors away from the
druids groves and forests, the trap will hinder any unsuspecting traveler
who walks into it. It is known to greatly slow one who is not aware of it,
and often leaves confusion and destruction in its wake, as an angry druid
does not look kindly on intruders to his home.
~

#373
-1 'BREW'~
BREW
syntax: brew <item>

Passsed down from generation to generation, the ancient technique of
brewing has become somewhat of a trademark of the druidic culture. A
skilled druid is able to take a handfull of herbs and make them into a
powerful potion. The druid Aruncus has learned to capitilize on his famous
brewings, yet few druids will part with their secret.
~

#374
-1 'DRUID STAFF'~
DRUID STAFF
syntax: druid staff

Their are few druids who are not able to shape the forgotten gifts of
nature, however few are capable of making a true druids staff. With time
and patience, a skilled druid is able to make a powerful weapon out of
little to no resources.
~

#375
-1 'FASTING'~
FASTING
syntax: fasting

A hermetic and solitary breed by nature, the common druid rarely visits
the cities, and as such is able to develop a temporary resistance to the
effects of hunger and thirst. After a long period of fasting, a druid will
find he is overcome with ravenous urges to fill his stomach.
~

#376
-1 'ENTANGLE'~
ENTANGLE
syntax: entangle

With a word, a druid is able to command the shrubbery to entangle the
movements of a target. The target will find itself greatly hindered in
combat, and indeed while hindered will lose the power and strength to
deliver effective blows.
~

#377
-1 'VISITATION'~
VISITATION
syntax commune 'visitation'

Communing far into the lower planes of existance, shamans are capable
of marking a victim's soul for a servant bound to their purpose.
The demonic forces called by the communer will travel towards their
marked pray wrecking their bloody vengance upon them.  Few are those
who have been marked in such fasion and live without nigthmares of
terrible visitations by spirits of darkness.
~

#378
-1 'FIELDDRESSING' 'FIELD DRESSING'~
FIELD DRESSING
syntax: field dressing

Field dressing is an ancient art learned by battlemages allowing them
to heal very rapidly.  In order to do this, they apply ointments and 
spells to their body which restrict movement and slow them down.
~

#379
-1 VOODOO 'VOODOO DOLL' 'VOODOODOLL'~
VOODOO DOLL

The art of voodoo is one practiced by high-level shamans.  The shaman 
uses black magic to bring harm to their enemies over great distances.

CREATING A DOLL
To first bring harm to an enemy, the shaman must first make a voodoo doll.  
To do so, the shaman must choose a target.  Once the target is found, they 
must create a doll by using the following syntax:  voodoo create <target>.

USING A VOODOO DOLL
After a voodoo doll is made of the target, the shaman may then use it to 
bring harm to their target.  The shaman may bring weaken, curse, plague, 
poison, hex, harm, insomnia, blindness, and enfeeblement onto the victim.  
To place such a burden, use the following syntax: 
voodoo place <target> <spell>.

Since this making a doll takes time, many moons may pass before a shaman c
an make another.  Also dolls are rare, and as such are subject to the rare
limit of your inventory (one less then your rank divided by 10).
~

#380
-1 'MASS HYSTERIA'~
'MASS HYSTERIA'
Syntax: commune 'mass hysteria' <victim>

By increasing the anxiety of the target, the communer can bring the
target into a state of hysteria.  While the target is panicking,
they will have difficulty recalling their skills and have trouble 
finding a way to escape.  The spell affects anyone grouped with
the original victim of the spell
~

#381
-2 psionicist~ TELEPATHY~
TELEPATHY
Syntax: telepathy <person> <message>
 
  Those Psioncists whom wish to dwell on more subtle and mysterious
powers of the mind may focus their studies on uses of this skill.
The following abilities depend on arts of Kinesis:
 
  Omen
  Deathmare
  Mindmelt
  Dreamprobe
  Phase Shift
  Mental Knife
  Spell Vise
  Spell Blast
  Spell Trap
See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, DOMINATION
~

#382
-1 'TWO HANDED' TWOHANDED TWOHAND ~
'TWO HANDED'

Warriors, berzerkers, ranger, paladins, and dark-knights have the ability
to control two handed weapons with intense training. With this training, 
while holding the weapon firmly with two hands they can use it to block an 
attack and stop it short.  Those who do not have this skill will find it 
difficult to battle with two handed weapons.
~

#383
-1 'ACCESSION'~
'ACCESSION'
Syntax: commune 'accession' <target>

Accession is perhaps the strongest beneficial supplicant the healer has
in their possession.  It unleashes the hidden potential each character
holds back, enhancing their main attributes.  Due to the strain accession 
puts on a character, a rest period is required before it can be performed 
again.
~

#384
-1 HAYMAKER~
syntax: haymaker

A berserker may harness their power into a hit that may cause the target to
lose focus on their undertakings.   Once the target loses focus, they no
longer have the mindset to keep their magical priorities up.  With the
target unable to upkeep their spells, the berserker can take full advantage
of their opponent.
~

#385
-1 'ACID BLAST'~
'ACID BLAST'
Syntax: cast 'acid blast' <target>

This spell forms a stream of acid, which the caster throws at the victim.  
The spell inflicts a massive amount of damage on its victims due to the 
corrosive nature of the projectile.  It is a spell that can only be learned 
by necromancers.
~

#386
-1 THRASH 'AIR THRASH'~
AIR THRASH
Syntax: thrash
Syntax: thrash <target>

Monks in their offensive stance are able to perform a special aerial maneuver 
targeting flying targets. Jumping in the air they are able to strike quickly 
and then land on their feet to continue the fight.  When this maneuver connects
with its greatest potential, the monk is able to knock the opponent down 
preventing it from flying for a short interval.

See also: HURRICANE
~

#387
-1 'ANIMATE CORPSE'~
'ANIMATE CORPSE'
Syntax: cast 'animate corpse' corpse

Necromancers who draw their powers from the negative energies of souls 
have developed the ability to animate dead corpses.  The corpses will 
rise up and start following the necromancer as his master.  However, this 
process is very draining to the necromancer, thus he may only animate 
corpses sporadically. 

See also: HELP ORDER COMMAND.
~

#388
-1 ARMOR~
ARMOR
Syntax: cast 'armor'
Syntax: cast 'armor' <target>
Syntax: commune 'armor'
Syntax: commune 'armor' <target>

This spell magically enhances the armor that the person is wearing.  The
spell makes the armor tougher, allowing it to deflect more damage away from 
the wearer of the armor.
~

#389
-1 BARRIER~
BARRIER
Syntax: commune 'barrier'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield against physical damage.  
However, the upkeep of this spell is very stressful.  The caster would 
have to put in more mental energy every time a physical attack is directed 
at him in order to deflect the damage toward him.  Once the caster's mana 
has been depleted, the barrier will disappear.
~

#390
-1 BLASPHEMY~
BLASPHEMY
Syntax: commune 'blasphemy' <target>

Communing blasphemy at a target will cause them to have doubts about
their religion.  While tainted by the blasphemy the target will lose
their ability to commune and as the faith leaves them, enter a state of
hysteria. Certain spells that involve their alignment and religion such 
as prayer, bless, etc will also have no affect on the target, as long as 
their faith remain faltered.

See also: HELP COMMUNE
~

#391
-1 BLINDNESS~
BLINDNESS
Syntax: cast 'blindness' <target>
Syntax: commune 'blindness' <target>

This spell magically blinds your opponents.  He will loose his sight for some 
duration of time if it is not cured.  The effect of the spell is more powerful 
and can blind the opponent longer at a higher level.
~

#392
-2 vampire~ BLOODLUST~
BLOODLUST
Syntax: cast 'bloodlust'

When a vampire's lust for blood has reached its peak with bloodlust, their 
senses are enhanced greatly, and they are able to detect almost anything 
that can hunger their thirst for blood.  At the initial moment when the 
spell is cast, their hunger is so strong, that they will have the overwhelming 
urge to attack the first possible target, friend or foe.
~

#393
-2 vampire~ BLOOD GOUT~
BLOOD GOUT
Syntax: cast 'blood gout'

By reinforcing their hunger with the dark force of the covenant a vampire 
becomes capable of exercising control over any substantial amount of blood 
in the area.  As gouts of blood shoot forth, a powerful enough childe can 
direct the blood and feed at leisure. It is rumored that the Elders of Kindred 
are capable of bleeding a victim dry in seconds with this cruel spell.
~

#394
-1 BURNINGHANDS 'BURNING HANDS'~
'BURNING HANDS'
Syntax: cast 'burning hands' <target>

This spell empowers the hands of the caster, making his hands as hot as a 
burning fire.  The caster then touches his opponent, inflicting damage to 
the victim due to the heat.  The nature of this spell is a fire-based attack 
and invokers only possess it.
~

#395
-1 CALLLIGHTNING 'CALL LIGHTNING'~
'CALL LIGHTNING'
Syntax: cast 'call lightning' <target>

Rangers and Invokers have partial control of the elements.  When the weather 
is poor, they have the ability to call down lightning bolts upon their 
opponents.  The damage inflicted by this spell is a lightning-based attack, 
and any significant amount of metal/armor on the target will enhance the 
effect greatly.

See also 'HELP CONTROL WEATHER'.
~

#396
-1 CALM~
CALM
Syntax: commune 'calm'

One of the most useful and often overlooked abilities of the healer and cleric 
is the calm spell, which attempts to relax any agressive creature and those in 
combat with the caster.  Successfuly calmed targets will lose any violent urges 
and in case of mindless creatures stop attacks on the caster's party.  Due to 
their nature, the Undead are particularly vulnerable to this spell.
~

#397
-1 CANCELLATION~
CANCELLATION
Syntax: cast 'cancellation'
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <spell>
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <character> 
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <character> <spell>

The spell cancellation allows the caster to remove all or specific magical
enhancements that are affecting him.  This spell does not always gurantee 
that spells affecting the caster will be removed.  One may have to cast it 
several times to remove every single affect.  Some spells that cause harmful 
ailments may not be removed by the cancellation spell and must be cured. 
Some offensive spells cast by opponents may not be cancelled at all.
~

#398
-1 CAUSELIGHT 'CAUSE LIGHT' 'CAUSE SERIOUS' 'CAUSE CRITICAL' HARM~
'CAUSE LIGHT' 'CAUSE SERIOUS' 'CAUSE CRITICAL' HARM
Syntax: commune 'cause light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cause serious' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cause critical' <target>
Syntax: commune 'harm' <target>

These spells inflicts damage on the victim not by inflicting physical pain, 
but by hurting the victim through magic.  The spells itself is an active 
agent in causing the damage.  The higher the level the more damage it causes, 
with harm being the most powerful spell. Dark-knights and shamans have the 
ability to cast these spells.
~

#399
-1 CHAINLIGHTNING 'CHAIN LIGHTNING'~
'CHAIN LIGHTNING'
Syntax: cast 'chain lightning' <target>

A spell considered most inappropriate by the guild of Invokers, it was
developed by some misguided member of that guild with precise goal of
targeting other Invokers.  When cast, it creates a countless number of
small lighting bolts, that arc between the caster and the victim.  While
the lighting bolts do practiclly no damage, they have a particular ability
to quickly overload the mana shield and spell turning spells if its present.
~

#400
-1 CHANGESEX 'CHANGE SEX'~
'CHANGE SEX'
Syntax: cast 'change sex' <target>

This spell magically alter the sex of your victim for a duration of time.  
While under the spell, a person would appear to others as an "it" for they 
would not hold any distinguishable sexual characteristics.
~

#401
-1 CHARMPERSON 'CHARM PERSON'~
CHARM PERSON
Syntax: cast 'charm person' <target>
 
Charm person, if successful, causes the victim to follow the caster and to 
take orders from him.  The victim would not be able to resist the caster.  
Also, he would not be able to attack the caster.  One would use the command 
ORDER to order their charmed followers to execute various actions.  You are
able to order your follower to sleep prior to the spell's expiration, thus
making it easier to recast the spell, but be warned, upon the spell's expiration,
your once charmed follower will attack you on sight. 
 
See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#402
-1 CHILLTOUCH 'CHILL TOUCH'~
'CHILL TOUCH'
Syntax: cast 'chill touch' <target>

This spell empowers the hands of the caster, making his hands as cold as ice.  
The caster then touches his opponent, inflicting damage to the victim due to 
the extreme chill of his hands.  The coldness of the caster's hands will also 
weaken his victim. The nature of this spell is a cold-based attack and it is 
only possessed by necromancers, battlemages, and dark knights.
~

#403
-1 CHORUSOFANGUISH 'CHORUS OF ANGUISH'~
'CHORUS OF ANGUISH'
Syntax: cast 'chorus of anguish' <target>

The tunes of death that the deceased can sing can inflict anguish upon the 
target.  The deadly songs can be heard in a radius that echoes throughout the
 current room.
~

#404
-1 COMPREHEND LANGUAGE' 'COMPREHEND LANGUAGES' COMPREHEND~
'COMPREHEND LANGUAGES'
Syntax: cast 'comprehend languages' <target>

This spell allows the target to understand all manners of speech and foreign 
tongues.  This includes all strange tongues, drunks/morons, and incarnations 
of mages other then one's guild.
~

#405
-1 CONTROLWEATHER 'CONTROL WEATHER'~
'CONTROL WEATHER'
Syntax: cast 'control weather' better
Syntax: cast 'control weather' worse

Control weather is a spell that is taught to young rangers and invokers, 
allowing them to have partial control over the elements.  They may alter
the weather to make it better or worse to however they see fit.
~

#406
-3 demon~ CORRUPTION CORRUPT~
CORRUPTION
syntax: corrupt <target>

Demons the twisted products of Shadowspawn's hate and evil, have ability to
taint a victim with the primal essence of chaos and evil.  Those infected with
the vile taint not only will find themselves forsaken by the gods, but with the
very fabric of reality around them parting and twisting any spell casting will 
be a strenuous task.  Ancient documents speak of demons ravaging whole legions 
of corrupted clerics and paladins, as they vainly tried to call for help upon 
their gods...
~

#407
-1 COUNTERFEIT~
COUNTERFEIT
Syntax: counterfeit <obj>

Used by thieves who want to earn some quick cash.  This skill allows the user
 tocreate a replica in appearance of another object.  There are ways to 
determine whether a object is a counterfeit or not.
~

#408
-1 CREATEFOOD 'CREATE FOOD' 'CREATE SPRING' 'CREATE WATER'~
'CREATE FOOD' 'CREATE SPRING' 'CREATE WATER'
Syntax: cast 'create food'
Syntax: cast 'create spring'
Syntax: cast 'create water' <target>
Syntax: commune 'create food'
Syntax: commune 'create spring'
Syntax: commune 'create water' <target>

The creation spells are spells learned by many magic users in some form. 
Create food creates a magical mushroom which may be eaten as food.  The 
spell becomes more powerful as the mushrooms created becomes more filling 
to a hungry appetite.  Create spring magically creates a spring at the feet 
of a caster, allowing for all passerby to drink out of the spring.  Create 
water is a spell that replenishes a specific drink container with water.  
~

#409
-1 CUREBLINDNESS 'CURE BLINDNESS'~
'CURE BLINDNESS'
Syntax: commune 'cure blindness'
Syntax: commune 'cure blindness' <target>

The cure blindness spell cures those who were blinded through a magical
agent.  Thus, the spell acts as a counter to the blindness spell.  However, 
this spell cannot cure those who were blinded by physical agents, such as 
dirt kick.
~

#410
-1 CURELIGHT 'CURE LIGHT' 'CURE SERIOUS' 'CURE CRITICAL' HEAL 'MASS HEALING'~
'CURE LIGHT' 'CURE SERIOUS' 'CURE CRITICAL' HEAL 'MASS HEALING'
Syntax: cast 'cure light'
Syntax: cast 'cure light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure light'
Syntax: commune 'cure light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure serious'
Syntax: commune 'cure serious' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure critical'
Syntax: commune 'cure critical' <target>
Syntax: commune 'heal'
Syntax: commune 'heal' <target>
Syntax: commune 'mass healing'

These spells magically cure wounds that the person had received in his 
journey.  However, it does not cure any other afflictions that he might 
have received.  For example, it cannot cure blindness, poison, or disease.  
It can only cure the wounds that the person has.  The higher the level the 
more wound it can cure, with heal being the most powerful spell.  Mass healing
cures everyone in the room as well as refreshes them from their journey.  
clerics and paladins and dark-knights to a very small degree are the only 
ones to have learned these spells.
~

#411
-1 CUREDISEASE 'CURE DISEASE'~
'CURE DISEASE'
Syntax: commune 'cure disease'
Syntax: commune 'cure disease' <target>

Several guilds have taught their flock the ability to cure the diseases that 
adventurers may pick up as they travel throughout the realm.  These diseases 
often plagues the victim, as well as those that he comes in contact with. This 
spell can remove the disease from the victim, allowing him to travel without 
any further hindrances.
~

#412
-1 CUREPOISON 'CURE POISON'~
'CURE POISON'
Syntax: commune 'cure poison'
Syntax: commune 'cure poison' <target>

Several guilds have taught their flock the ability to cure those who are 
poisoned either by taking in poisoned items or inflicted upon them 
magically.  While poisoned, the victim often experiences wounds and lack 
of both mental and physical energy.  This spell can remove the poison 
from the victim's body, allowing him to travel without any further 
hindrances.
~

#413
-1 CURSE~
CURSE
Syntax: cast 'curse' <target>
Syntax: commune 'curse' <target>

Evil clerics, necromancers, and dark-knights have the ability to call down 
curses upon their victims, causing them to be deemed unclean and thus 
forsaken by the gods.  In such a state, the victim may not use their ability 
to call to the gods for magical transportation back to their hometown.  Also, 
it renders the victim to loose focus leading to a decrease in effectiveness in 
combat as well as being more susceptible to additional spells that are cast on 
them.
~

#414
-1 CURSEWEAPON 'CURSE WEAPON'~
CURSE WEAPON
Syntax: cast 'curse weapon' <object>

Necromancers can place a curse upon their weapons, causing it to be 
irremovable and unable to be dropped.  However, the weapon cannot avoid 
damage when trying to curse it, thus the blade might suffer some penalties 
upon each attempt.  There is even a chance the weapon cannot withstand the 
curse, and be destroyed.

Also see: MALFORM WEAPON
~

#415
-1 DARKSHROUD 'DARK SHROUD'~
'DARK SHROUD'
Syntax: commune 'dark shroud' <target>

Enshrouding oneself by the shadows of the phantoms, the communer can
hide the aura from the spells that affect him.  The only affect 
visible on the communer will be the shroud itself.  This does not
remove the affects of other spells, it merely disguises them.
~

#416
-1 DEATHGRASP 'DEATH GRASP'~
'DEATH GRASP'
Syntax: cast 'death grasp' <target>

By continually sending jolts of negative energy through the victims 
body, the necromancer makes them susceptible to an instant death at 
the hands of the Power Word Kill spell.  With each increasing successful 
death grasp, the chance of a successful Power Word Kill increases.  
However, there reaches a point in where the victims body becomes immune 
to any more grasps of negative energy.

See also: POWERWORD KILL
~

#417
-1 DEMONFIRE~
DEMONFIRE
Syntax: commune demonfire <target>

Demonfire is a spell learned by the clerics.  Shamans may commune to their gods 
and either call upon their god to bring down divine wrath from the heavens or 
to conjure forth demonic spirits of hell to assail upon their victims.  The 
wrath or the demonic spirits that are called may not be used against those 
of the same path.  If it is done, the attack will be turned against the one 
who called forth the divine powers.
~

#418
-1 DETECTEVIL 'DETECT EVIL' 'DETECT GOOD' 'DETECT INVIS' 'DETECT MAGIC'~
'DETECT EVIL' 'DETECT GOOD' 'DETECT INVIS' 'DETECT MAGIC' 'DETECT POISON'
Syntax: cast 'detect evil'
Syntax: cast 'detect good'
Syntax: cast 'detect invis'
Syntax: cast 'detect magic'
Syntax: commune 'detect evil'
Syntax: commune 'detect good'
Syntax: commune 'detect invis'
Syntax: commune 'detect magic'

The detect evil spell enables the caster to distinguish those who follows 
the path of darkness, revealing a characteristic red aura around the person.  
It also enables the caster to distinguish objects of an evil origin or nature.

The detect good spell enables the caster to distinguish those who follows 
the path of light, revealing a characteristic golden aura around the person.

The detect invis spell enables the caster to see those who have concealed 
themselves by the invisibility spell.  It also enables the caster to see 
objects that are invisible by nature.

The detect magic spell enables the caster to see those items that contain
 magical qualities.  

~

#419
-1 DETERIORATE~
DETERIORATE
Syntax: commune 'deteriorate' <target>

The defense of the target is lowered by the deterioration of their
armor and resistance.  The target's armor class will be less effective
and they will be more susceptible to spells.  This spell's chance to 
affect its victim is directly related to the target's save versus spell
and malediction statistics.
~

#420
-1 DISPELEVIL 'DISPEL EVIL' 'DISPEL GOOD' 'DISPEL MAGIC'~
'DISPEL EVIL' 'DISPEL GOOD' 'DISPEL MAGIC'
Syntax: cast 'dispel magic' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel magic' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel evil' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel good' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel magic' <target>

The dispel evil spell calls upon the wrath of the gods of light upon the
victim, inflicting great damage.  Only those who walks in the path of
darkness are affected by this spell.  Healers, shamans, and paladins are
the only ones who have this spell.

The dispel good spell calls upon the gods of darkness to inflict a horrific 
torment on the victim.  Only those who walks in the path of light are affected 
by this torment.  Dark-knights have this spell learned as part of their 
training.

Dispel magic is an offensive spell that removes the spells affecting your 
opponent.  It does not discriminate which types of spells to remove, thus 
it may remove both benign or harmful spells affecting him.  Not all spells
may be dispelled.  Spells affecting the creatures in the realm may not be 
dispelled because those spells are held by those creatures by nature, they 
are not casted onto the creatures by men.
~

#421
-1 DYSENTERY~
DYSENTERY
Syntax: commune 'dysentery' <target>

Disrupting the digestive system of the target, they will quickly expel out 
any food in their system.  The target will experience extreme hunger, and 
eating will only harm them more than help.  Every once in a while the pain 
will be so unbearable it will force the victim on their knees.  Liquids 
will not harm the victim, but no nutrition can be absorbed from it.
~

#422
-1 EARTHQUAKE~
EARTHQUAKE
Syntax: commune 'earthquake'

Earthquake allows the caster to cause the ground to shake, causing wounds to all 
those in the room.  Those who are flying at the time will not be affected by 
this spell.  There are rumors of this spell forcing strange mists out of the 
ground at times, but those are thought to be only rumors.
~

#423
-1 EDGECRAFT 'EDGE CRAFT'~
EDGE CRAFT
Syntax: edge <object>

During their training as a bard, ninja or thief, they have learned to transform 
useless objects into deadly weapons.  They mastered the craft, edging, to 
sharpen trash, treasures, and keys into shurikens or daggers.  Though items
of low quality are easily sharpened for deadly use, it is the rare and limited
artifacts of the lands that allow for creation of truly useful ordinance.
~

#424
-2 vampire~ EMBRACE~
EMBRACE
Syntax: embrace <target>
Stalking the cities of Aabahran at night, a Kindred is silent and deadly killer. 
Yet those that have thought them know that it not their combat prowess nor 
deadly sorcery that is to be feared. For the vampire's bite along with their 
foul taint carries the dreadful curse of unlife, often turning the victim into 
the very being he was sworn to destroy as the blood of undead begins to course 
through their veins.  If this occurs and the vampires blood flows freely about 
the victim, he to will become dark, thus tainting the faith and acceptance of 
all like them.  Luckily any healing spell will combat the spreading disease, 
and Paladins are extremely skilled in curing the foul mark using their lay on 
hands ability.

See also: LAY ON HANDS
~

#425
-1 ENCHANTWEAPON 'ENCHANT ARMOR' 'ENCHANT WEAPON'~
'ENCHANT ARMOR' 'ENCHANT WEAPON'
Syntax: cast 'enchant armor' <object>
Syntax: cast 'enchant weapon' <object>

The enchant armor spell imbues armor with powerful protective magics.  It 
is not nearly as reliable as enchant weapon, being far more prone to destructive 
effects.  Each successful enchant increases the protection from the armor, 
thus deeming the item more powerful than before.

The enchant weapon spell magically enchants a weapon, increasing the power 
of the weapon.  Multiple enchants may be cast, but as the weapon grows more 
and more powerful, it is more likely to be drained or destroyed by the magic.  
Also, every successful enchant renders the weapon more powerful, thus 
considered higher in rank.
~

#426
-1 ENERGYDRAIN 'ENERGY DRAIN'~
'ENERGY DRAIN'
Syntax: cast 'energy drain' <target>
Syntax: commune 'energy drain' <target>

Necromancers and dark-knights learn energy drain as part of their training. 
This spell allows the caster to magically sap a small amount of health, 
but most importantly, it saps the victim of his mental energy and physical 
energy, hindering his ability to cast spells and move around.  This spell 
also drains some experience from the victim, relieving him of some of the 
experiences that he had gained throughout his journey. 
~

#427
-1 ENLARGE SHRINK~
ENLARGE SHRINK
Syntax: cast 'enlarge'
Syntax: cast 'enlarge' <target>
Syntax: cast 'shrink'
Syntax: cast 'shrink' <target>


The enlarge spell increases the size of the person for a short duration of 
time.  Along with the increased size come its advantages and disadvantages. 
The shrink spell is the opposite of the enlarge spell.  It decreases the 
size of the person for a short duration of time, also giving him the 
advantages and disadvantages of his new size.
~

#428
-1 ENVENOM~
ENVENOM
Syntax: envenom <object>

This allows the user to spread a thin layer of poison on edged weapons
or inject poison into food and drink containers.  Once the object is
contaminated, there is a chance it will poison the victim that is
either injured by the weapon, or ingested the poisoned food or drink.
~

#429
-1 'ETHEREAL PASSAGE'~
'ETHEREAL PASSAGE'
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' north
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' east
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' south
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' west
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' up
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' down

A temporal warp opened to the ethereal dimension, allowing a short
passage in a certain direction.  This allows the communer to walk
through certain doors, and other barriers.  Certain rooms prevents
the ethereal passage from working.
~

#430
-1 EXTORT~
EXTORT
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Dark-knights walk the land with a fearful reputation.  The peaceful citizens 
live in fear of them, and cower in their presence.  Abusing this reputation, 
dark-knights tries to threaten shopkeepers for free items. Most shopkeepers
will let cheap items go easily, but will not be so easily intimidated when 
their valuables are at stake.
~

#431
-1 'FAERIE FIRE'~
FAERIE FIRE
Syntax: cast 'faerie fire' <target>
Syntax: commune 'faerie fire' <target>

Faerie fire is an offensive spell.  It surrounds the victim with a pink 
aura which prevents him from concealing himself in anyway.  Also, it 
worsens the victim's armor, making him easier to hit as well as taking 
more damage when hit.  Note that faerie's own magical properties negate
this spell making it useless against that race.
~

#432
-1 'FAERIE FOG'~
'FAERIE FOG'
Syntax: cast 'faerie fog'
Syntax: commune 'faerie fog'

The spell faerie fog conjures up a yellow fog within the room, revealing all 
those who are concealed in anyway.  It also surrounds the victim with a 
yellow aura, preventing him to conceal himself for a short duration of 
time.  Faerie fog is not an offensive spell, thus it will not start 
fights with those around the caster.  Note that faerie's own magical 
properties negate this spell making it useless against that race.
~

#433
-1 'FIRE SHIELD' 'ICE SHIELD'~
'FIRE SHIELD' 'ICE SHIELD'
Syntax: cast 'fire shield'
Syntax: cast 'ice shield'

These spells creates a magical shield of the specific element surrounding 
the invoker.  The shield acts as a protective barrier from the invoker's 
opponents.  If an opponent is in combat with the invoker, there is a 
chance that the shield surrounding the invoker will wound their opponent.  
Also, the shield acts as a dampening or an enhancement device against 
natural elements.  Fire attacks against an invoker while he has surrounded 
himself with a fire shield will enhance the attack whereas ice attacks 
will be dampened and be decreased in power.  The basic invoker spells
of Flame Arrow and Icicle can be further enhanced in power by the shield
of their respective elements.
~

#434
-1 FIREBALL ICEBALL~
FIREBALL ICEBALL
Syntax: cast 'fireball'
Syntax: cast 'iceball'

These spells creates a large ball of the respective elemental forces which 
fills the room, causing wounds to everyone around the caster other than him 
and his group mates.  These spells have been known to be quite powerful, 
inflicting great wounds against the victims.  Fireball has known to inflict 
massive amounts of damage while being easier to defend against. Its 
counterpart is far more dependable at a price of raw damage.
~

#435
-1 FIRESTORM~
Syntax: cast 'firestorm'

Calling upon the mightiest forces of fire and hell the Invokers can create 
this virtual storm of fire and brimstone.  As the hellish maelstrom of fire 
and sulfur twists over the area, it rains flaming debris on all those that 
cannot take cover or are unlucky enough to stumble into it.  The enchantment 
takes immense concentration on the invokers part and is not easy to maintain. 
~

#436
-1 'FLAME ARROW'~
'FLAME ARROW'
Syntax: cast 'flame arrow' <target>

Invokers have acquired the flame arrow spell through their training.  This 
spell creates an arrow of pure fire which the caster may throw at his opponent.
It is known to cause great damage to the victim.
~

#437
-1 FLAMESTRIKE~
FLAMESTRIKE
Syntax: commune 'flamestrike' <target>

Flamestrike is a spell that creates a giant stream of flame which the caster 
can direct toward the victim.  The attack brought forth by this spell is a 
fire-basedattack and the scorching flames may blind the target at times.
When used by the righteous Paladin, this spell strikes the victim as well as
all of their allies present.
~

#438
-1 'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'~
'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'
Syntax: cast 'flesh golem'
Syntax: cast 'stone golem'

Necromancers have gained the ability to call forth golems from their long 
training in the undead.  Flesh golems are the weaker of the two types of golems
and can be controlled by a lower ranked necromancer.  Stone golems are the 
stronger of the two types of golems, thus only a high ranked necromancer can 
control.

See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#439
-1 AFFECT AFFECTS~
AFFECTS 
Syntax: affects
	affects full
	affects list
	affects # <designation> <affect name>
	
This command is used to show all the spells affecting your character. Spell 
effects are no longer shown on score (this can be changed by using 'show' 
command).

CUSTOM DISPLAY
You can customize the display of affects with a shorthand designation in
order to get a better and faster idea of which of your spells are active.

For example "affect 1 San sanctuary" would put in the designation 'San'
in the first display spot and bind it with the spell sanctuary.

To clear a display spot, simply use "affect #" and it will be reset.

The spells which are not included in your custom display will still
be shown normal way when you use "affect" command.  To get a full display
of all your spells and their effects, use "affect full".



~

#440
-1 'FLAME ARROW'~
'FLAME ARROW'
Syntax: cast 'flame arrow' <target>

Invokers have acquired the flame arrow spell through their training.  This 
spell creates an arrow of pure fire which the caster may throw at his opponent.
It is known to cause great damage to the victim.
~

#441
-1 'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'~
'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'
Syntax: cast 'flesh golem'
Syntax: cast 'stone golem'

Necromancers have gained the ability to call forth golems from their long 
training in the undead.  Flesh golems are the weaker of the two types of golems
and can be controlled by a lower ranked necromancer.  Stone golems are the 
stronger of the two types of golems, thus only a high ranked necromancer can 
control.
~

#442
-1 FLY~
FLY
Syntax: cast 'fly'
Syntax: cast 'fly' <target>
Syntax: commune 'fly'
Syntax: commune 'fly' <target>

The fly spell enables the person affected by the spell to be able to fly.  
While affected by this spell, a person may travel to regions a regular 
person may not go to.  He can also journey over water without using a boat.  
Furthermore, a flying person would not be affected by opponents who tries to 
trip them, or the earthquake spell, for those are all ground attacks.
~

#443
-1 FRENZY~
FRENZY
Syntax: commune 'frenzy'
Syntax: commune 'frenzy' <target>

The frenzy spell fills the person with righteous fury, greatly increasing his 
attack skill and damaging capacity.  Unfortunately, this divine wrath is 
coupled with a tendency to ignore threats to personal safety, making the 
himself easier to hit.  Frenzy provides immunity to the calm spell, and may 
only be used on those of the caster's alignment.
~

#444
-1 'GHOUL TOUCH'~
GHOUL TOUCH
Syntax: cast 'ghoul touch' <target>

Using the negative energy that surrounds them, Necromancers are able to 
drain strength away from the body of their victim.  Although the necromancer 
gains no beneficial affects, their victim will begin to move sluggishly. Sapped
of their strength victims will take longer to perform actions in battle and 
will also be slower to recover from stunning attacks.
~

#445
-1 'GIANT STRENGTH'~
'GIANT STRENGTH'
Syntax: cast 'giant strength'
Syntax: cast 'giant strength' <target>
Syntax: commune 'giant strength'
Syntax: commune 'giant strength' <target>

The giant strength spell empowers the person affected with magical energy 
resulting in an increase of his strength.  As the caster gains more experience 
and rise up in ranks, his ability to grant magical strength also increases.  
Shamans, illusionists, and psionicists have learned to cast giant strength.
~

#446
-1 HASTE SLOW~
HASTE SLOW
Syntax: cast 'haste'
Syntax: cast 'haste' <target>
Syntax: cast 'slow' <target>

The haste spell increases the speed and agility of the recipient.  Due to 
the effect, it is known that the affected person may sometimes gain an 
extra attack in combat, and gain a heightened ability in evading his 
opponent's attacks.  However, it produces a great strain on the system, 
such that recuperative abilities are greatly hindered.

The slow spell decreases the speed and agility of the recipient.  While
affected by the spell, the victim often looses his ability to attack as
rapidly as he normally can.  The victim is also hindered in evading his
opponent's attacks.  However, the spell has a calming effect on the victim 
which allows him to heal more rapidly, both physically and mentally.
~

#447
-1 HELLSTREAM~
HELLSTREAM
Syntax: cast 'hellstream' <target>

Invokers have learned the ability to call forth a stream of light from the 
ground, engulfing the victim with the energy of the stream.  This is one of 
the most powerful spells known in the realm, rumored to be able to kill 
opponent in just a few streams. The power of the hellstream is so intense 
that equipment meant to protect against it or infused with magical forces 
often shatters under the intense stress of energy.
~

#448
-1 'HOLD UNDEAD'~
'HOLD UNDEAD'
Syntax: cast 'hold undead' <target>

The necromancer can exercise his control of the realm of the undead by 
being able to make movement of an undead creature near impossible.
The undead being will find any kind of action strenous, and any aggressive
actions will be completly negated.
~

#449
-1 'HOLY WORD'~
'HOLY WORD'
Syntax: commune 'holy word'

  Drawing upon their very foundations of faith, the communer of this mighty
prayer utters a word never meant for mortal lips to form.  The divine power
of this incanation fills the Paladin with such fevor and righteous spirit
that it allows them to bring down the wrath of their deity even at those
whom are at brink of death.   Thus supported the prayer of wrath has a greater
chance to curse the victims and increased ability to ignore magical defenses
even against those whom are sorely wounded.

See also: WRATH
~

#450
-1 'HOLY WATER'~
'HOLY WATER'
Syntax: commune 'holy water' <drink container>

A healer can grant pure water the blessing from the gods.  Once blessed,
the water becomes holy water.  When goods drink it, they shall receive
the blessing from the heavens, and refreshed with the purity of the
water.  Evils will be burned by the touch of the water, and have a chance 
of being cursed.  Neutrals are not affected.  Only a certain quantity of 
water can be blessed at a time.
~

#451
-1 HURRICANE~
HURRICANE

Since well trained invoker has great control over the elements, they have 
achieved control over the greatest of all elements...a hurricane.  A skilled 
invoker can isolate a powerful hurricane in a small area.  With the powerful 
winds, anyone unlucky enough to be caught in it shall be thrown to the ground 
by the winds.  Even those who fly about shall be sucked to the ground by the 
powerful winds.

See also: AIR THRASH, TRIP
~

#452
-1 HYSTERIA~
HYSTERIA
Syntax: commune 'hysteria' <target>

By increasing the anxiety of the target, the communer can bring the
target into a state of hysteria.  While the target is panicking,
they will have difficulty recalling their skills and have trouble 
finding a way to escape.  The affect lasts only temporarily until
the target has a chance to regain his thoughts.
~

#453
-1 TERROR~
TERROR
Syntax: cacst 'terror' <target>

By bringing the victims fears to life inside their own mind, the
caster can cause the target to enter a state of dangerous panick.
While the target is panicking, they will have difficulty recalling
their skills and have trouble finding a way to escape.  
The affect lasts only short moment untill the has a chance to regain 
their morale.
~

#454
-1 'ICE STORM' ~
'ICE STORM' 
Syntax: cast 'ice storm'

This spell conjures a storm of elements of ice and lightning, inflicting
wounds to all those in the room due to the subzero temperature the storm 
brings.  The spell nature makes it very dependable against opponents with
magical protection against afflictive spells, and its effectivness more
then matches icicle spell especial against those vulnerable to cold.
At times the temperature drops to such extreme that weapons and
armor may shatter from stress of combat. Only invokers are able to learn 
this spell as part of their arsenal.
~

#455
-1 ICICLE~
ICICLE
Syntax: cast 'icicle' <target>

This spell creates a magic icicle which the caster may shoot toward an
opponent.  The icicle causes wounds to an opponent not by its piercing
action but rather by its temperature.  Only invokers are able to learn 
this spell as part of their arsenal.
~

#456
-1 IDENTIFY~
IDENTIFY
Syntax: cast 'identify' <object>
Syntax: commune 'identify' <object>

The identify spell reveals to the caster information about the object
in the caster's inventory or on the ground.  It can reveal information 
such as the weight, the material, and other attributes of the object.  
Clerics and all mage classes have the opportunity to learn identify in 
the course of their training.
~

#457
-1 IKUZACHI~
IKUZACHI
Syntax: cast 'ikuzachi' <target>

During the course of their training, ninjas are given the opportunity to
learn the spell ikuzachi.  This spell allows the ninja to concentrate and 
cast a magical spirit attack against his opponent.  
~

#458
-1 'ILLUSIONARY SPECTRE' 'PHANTASMAL GRIFFON' 'PHANTOM DRAGON'~
'PHANTASMAL GRIFFON' 'PHANTOM DRAGON' 'ILLUSIONARY SPECTRE'
Syntax: cast 'illusionary spectre' <target>
Syntax: cast 'phantasmal griffon' <target>
Syntax: cast 'phantom dragon' <target>

The illusionist creates an image of a minion to aid the caster 
during combat.  While false to the caster, the visage seems very real to 
the target.  Depending on the creatures intelligence, it fails and 
succeeds depending on how soon it figures out that it is only illusion.
~

#459
-1 INFRAVISION~
INFRAVISION
Syntax: cast 'infravision'
Syntax: cast 'infravision' <target>
Syntax: commune 'infravision'
Syntax: commune 'infravision' <target>

The infravision spell enables the person to see the changes in temperature 
around him, even if he is surrounded by darkness.  Because of this affect, 
the affected person may see his surroundings clearly. The notable known
exceptions to this are the Sliths who through their lizard heritage have
inherited their ancestors cold blood.

See also: SLITH
~

#460
-1 INSOMNIA~
INSOMNIA
Syntax: commune 'insomnia' <target>

Exhausts the target of their mental capabilities by depriving him of
sleep.  The target will experience mental fatigue and will not be able
to regenerate mana as long as they are affected by insomnia.
~

#461
-1 INVIGORATE~
INVIGORATE
Syntax: commune 'invigorate'

The highest form of refresh, this powerful supplication can restore all
group member's movements.  Only healers can learn this ability.
~

#462
-1 INVIS INVISIBILITY 'MASS INVIS'~
INVIS INVISIBILITY 'MASS INVIS'
Syntax: cast 'invisibility'
Syntax: cast 'invisibility' <target>
Syntax: cast 'mass invis'
Syntax: commune 'mass invis'

The invisibility spell makes the affected person invisible to the natural eye.
Only those who have been magically affected to see invisible can see those who 
have concealed themselves by the invisibility spell.  A person affected by the 
invisibility spell would become seen again if he is engaged in combat.  

The mass invis spell makes all the people or creatures in the caster's
group invisible, including the caster.  It has a similar effect as casting the 
invisibility spell to each and everyone in the group, thus, whoever engages in 
combat while invisible will cease to be invisible.
~

#463
-1 'JET STEAM'~
'JET STEAM'
Syntax: cast 'jet steam' <target>

This spell causes the waters surrounding the caster to be extremely heated, 
creating a jet of steam instantly.  This jet of steam can directed by the 
caster toward his opponent, drowning the opponent in the steam.  This spell
can only be casted if the caster has access to a sizable water source such 
as rivers, springs or even rain.

See also: CONTROL WEATHER, CREATE SPRING
~

#464
-1 KNOCK~
KNOCK
Syntax: cast 'knock' <direction>

A set of glowing, ethereal hands are created as an extension of the casters 
arms.  In doing so, it enables the caster to enter the lock mechanisms however
complex it may be, and unlock its target.  However, its been said that there 
are some type of locks that cannot be undone.
~

#465
-1 'KNOW ALIGNMENT'~
'KNOW ALIGNMENT'
Syntax: cast 'know alignment' <target>
Syntax: commune 'know alignment' <target>

The know alignment spell reveals to the caster the path of alignment which the 
affected person follows.  All mages have the ability to learn this spell.
~

#466
-1 'LIGHTNING BOLT'~
'LIGHTNING BOLT'
Syntax: cast 'lightning bolt' <target>

This spell allows the caster to create a bolt of lightning to shoots out
from his hands toward his opponent.  The damage inflicted by this spell 
is lightning-based.  
~

#467
-1 'LOCATE OBJECT'~
'LOCATE OBJECT'
Syntax: cast 'locate object' <object>
Syntax: commune 'locate object' <object>

The locate object spell reveals to the caster the location of all objects with 
the given name.  However, it does not reveal objects that are more powerful than 
deemed worthy to the caster.
~

#468
-1 'MAGIC MISSILE'~
'MAGIC MISSILE'
Syntax: cast 'magic missile' <target>

The magic missile spell creates a magic missile that the caster may direct
 toward his opponents, inflicting wounds against his opponents.  This spell
 is taught to very young spell students, thus not very powerful in nature. 
However, the spell does increase in power as the caster rise in ranks, 
although never reaching to a very feared state.
~

#469
-1 'MANA SHIELD'~
'MANA SHIELD'
Syntax: cast 'mana shield'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield of pure energy.  The shield 
can help deflect magical damage inflicted by the caster's opponents. However, 
the upkeep of this spell is very stressful.  The caster would have to put in 
more mental energy every time a magical attack is directed at him in order 
to deflect the damage toward him.  The efficiency of the upkeep increases 
as the caster rise in rank.
~

#470
-1 'MIRROR IMAGE' MIRROR~
MIRROR IMAGE
Syntax: cast 'mirror image'

The spell creates a shimmering translucent image of the caster, that when
need calls for it, becomes a perfect replica of its creator confusing
enemies into striking it instead of its master.   Though only a single 
image may be created at a time, the maximum number that may be controlled 
is dependant on caster's rank.  Finaly each image requires concentration 
and magical power to sustain, and will shatter when attacked, or fade away 
if distant from its creator.
~

#471
-2 vampire~ MORPH 'BAT FORM' 'WOLF FORM' 'MIST FORM'~
MORPH 'BAT FORM' 'WOLF FORM' 'MIST FORM'
Syntax: cast morph bat
Syntax: cast morph wolf
Syntax: cast morph mist

Through powers of the covenant and potent sorcery a vampire is capable of 
going through a Transformation assuming three forms.  While morphed, the 
equipment they are wearing will become part of the form.  They will not be 
able to wear, remove or get anything.  The stats from the equipment will be 
carried on to the form they morph into.  Vampires can return back to their 
natural form by typing 'revert'.

Bat Form
Small and nimble, the vampire bat is extremely difficult to detect. Covering 
huge distances on its wings the vampire can quickly travel across enormous 
distance. Much like their cousins, vampire bats use sound for their sight and 
cannot be blinded by conventional means.  Due to their small size they are
quite vulnerable to the summon spell.
Commands: none


Wolf Form
Its eyes blazing crimson, the slivering jaw parted in a deadly snarl, a vampire
wolf is a fearsome sight. Deadly silent in the forest and capable of terrifying
attacks of unmatched ferocity, a vampire wolf is an unmatched foe in its native
environment. A vampire wolf can tear at the opponent and cause terrifying 
woundsas well as tackle the opponents to the ground pinning them down. 
Commands: tear, tackle.


Mist Form
The most difficult forms to assume. The vampire coverts his form to an 
insubstantial mist becoming all but invulnerable to non-magical attacks. 
Capable of seeping through mere cracks, and immune to mundane attacks 
such as bash and grapple, a vampire becomes an unstoppable hunter.  
Vampires cannot fight in mist form, therefore they will automatically 
revert back to their natural form when attacking or after they've been 
attacked.  It requires intense concentration and energy to maintain the 
mist form, therefore, there is a mana cost to stay as a mist. Mists can 
become toxic, poisoning those in its proximity with noxious gases.

Commands: seep, toxify
~

#472
-1 'MYSTIC TENDRILS'~
MYSTIC TENDRILS'
Syntax: cast 'mystic tendrils'

It has always been said the lifeblood of a mage is not what courses 
through his veins, but rather his source of mana - for what is a mage 
without his powers.  Invokers, being masters of harnessing and 
channeling energy through their bodies, have developed the ability to 
compensate for their costly spells by tearing into their physical bodies, 
sacrificing life blood to regain their invaluable mana.  This is a risky 
procedure, and be warned, it has been the demise of countless many who've 
tried to sacrifice it all for the sake of magic.
 ~

#473
-1 'PASS DOOR'~
'PASS DOOR'
Syntax: cast 'pass door'
Syntax: commune 'pass door'

The pass door spell transforms the caster into a translucent form, allowing him 
not to be hindered by closed doors that he may come across.  This spell also 
allows the caster to flee through closed doors otherwise considered a invalid 
exit in the middle of combat.
~

#474
-1 'PHANTOM GRASP'~
PHANTOM GRASP
Syntax: cast 'phantom grasp' <target>
 
Phantom grasp summons forth the phantoms lurking in the darkness to
consume its target in negative energy.  The phantoms are able to slowly
wear down the magical resistance of the victim and each successful grasp
extends the strength and duration of the effect.
~

#475
-1 PILFER~
PILFER
Syntax: pilfer <object>

While fighting, the thief can attempt to knock an object from the
opponents inventory.  Since this is done in heat and bustle of combat
the chance to succeed is far better then when attempting to steal the
same object, and less likely to be noticed by the victim.

See also: STEAL
~

#476
-2 psionicist~ 'PHASE SHIFT'~
PHASE SHIFT
Syntax: cast 'phase shift'
Syntax: cast 'phase shift' store
Syntax: cast 'phase shift' none

Phase shift allows a psionicist to shift their existence from one place to 
the location they have stored in their memory using mind store.  
The transfer is instantaneous and most useful in emergencies.  You can store
the location of choice, or empty it using target of "none".

See Also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#477
-2 psionicist~ DREAMWALK~
DREAMWALK
Syntax: dreamwalk <victim>
        dreamwalk <omen/deathmare/dreamprobe/mindmelt>
 
  Using their telepathic abilities the Psionicist is capable
of tuning into a person's dream and becoming part of it.
Further manipulating the lucid state the dreamwalker can
then implant various dreams and nightmares.
 
  Once a particular dream has begun it will last for two
one hour sessions.  During the dreamwalk the Psionicist
is free to perform any actions including starting a new
dream to replace the current session.
 
See also: HELP OMEN, DEATHMARE, DREAMPROBE, MINDMELT, TELEPATHY
~

#478
-1 PLAGUE POISON~
PLAGUE POISON
Syntax: cast 'plague' <target>
Syntax: cast 'poison' <target>
Syntax: commune 'plague' <target>
Syntax: commune 'poison' <target>

The plague spell infests the victim with a magical disease of great
virulence, sapping its strength and causing horrific suffering, possibly
leading to death.  It is a risky spell to use, as the contagion can spread 
like wildfire if the victim makes it to a populated area.

The poison spell infests the victim with a magical poison which reduces the 
victim's strength as well as hinder his ability to heal wounds naturally.  
However, this poison does not spread to those the victim comes in contact 
with, making it less risky than plague.
~

#479
-1 'POWERWORD KILL'~
'POWERWORD KILL'
Syntax: cast 'powerword kill' <target>

Necromancers have devised a spell to kill anyone by a simple point of a 
finger. This spell carries the name of powerword kill.  By casting the 
spell, on a victim who has been affected by death grasp, the caster has
 a chance to kill the target outright.  The effect of the spell is farther
 affected by the skill and level of caster compared to his victim.

See also: DEATH GRASP
~

#480
-1 PRAYER~
PRAYER
Syntax: commune 'prayer'
Syntax: commune 'prayer' <target>

The mind is focused with the blessings of a prayer.  One's soul is more
at peace with itself, reducing the aggressiveness of the target, and
increasing the defenses.  While affected by a prayer, it is difficult
to get worked up or angered, but while in this serene peace of mind,
it allows you to concentrate better.
~

#481
-1 PROTECTION~
PROTECTION 
Syntax: cast 'protection'
Syntax: commune 'protection'

The protection spells reduce damage taken from attackers of the opposite
path of morals.  Those without a firm moral commitment does not receive
protection from this spell.  This spell may not be cast on others.
~

#482
-1 'PROTECTIVE SHIELD'~
'PROTECTIVE SHIELD'
Syntax: cast 'protective shield'
Syntax: commune 'protective shield'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield of magical energy, preventing 
him from being hit by opponents throwing their bodies against him.  However, 
this shield does not protect the caster from other forms of blunt attacks such 
as attacks by a mace.

See also: FORCE FIELD, BALANCE, IRON WILL
~

#483
-1 PUSH~
PUSH
Syntax: push <target> <direction>

A ninja with a perfectly placed push may place the target off balance forcing 
them to alter their position.  The victim thus propelled will then leave the 
area in the direction chosen by the ninja. Beware you may slip in your attempt 
to push someone and land in the direction you were hoping your victim would be.  
In some cases, the ninja may wish to push someone into a wall or a obstruction 
and cause great damage. 
~

#484
-1 RAKE~
RAKE
Syntax: rake <primary/secondary>

Berserkers have the ability to rake the weapon of the opponent with such a force, 
that the victim cannot attack with that weapon for the next round of combat, until 
they have regain control of their weapon.  Typing rake without any arguments will 
target the primary weapon by default.  Typing 'rake secondary' will target the dual 
wielded weapon.
~

#485
-1 'RANGER STAFF'~
'RANGER STAFF'
Syntax: ranger staff

Rangers, being the master woodsmen, have the skill to carve a staff out of wood. 
The quality of the staff increases as the ranger gets higher in rank.
~

#486
-1 REFRESH~
REFRESH
Syntax: cast 'refresh'
Syntax: cast 'refresh' <target>
Syntax: com  'refresh'
Syntax: com  'refresh' <target>
The refresh spell magically replenishes physical energy of the affected
person.  This spell can be cast on all others as well as the caster himself, 
even to those who are extremely inexperienced or experienced in comparison 
to the caster.
~

#487
-1 'REMOVE CURSE'~
'REMOVE CURSE'
Syntax: commune 'remove curse' <object>
Syntax: commune 'remove curse' <person> <object>

The remove curse spell is able to remove a curse on an object carried
by a caster or target person.  If the caster's power if sufficient when
compared witht he cure, it will be removed.  Some items are cursed with
such power that no mortal effort may counteract the curse.

NOTE: While this spell may not remove a curse placed on a person, the
temple healers are capable of performing this service for a price.
~

#488
-1 ROAR~
ROAR
Syntax: roar

A berserk can try to intimidate his opponent by letting out a primal
roar that shakes the ground they walk upon.  When the berserker is
successful, the victim will be temporarily weakened by lack of self
confidence.  Roar can only be used against those they are fighting.
~

#489
-1 SANCTUARY~
SANCTUARY
Syntax: cast 'sanctuary'
Syntax: cast 'sanctuary' <target>
Syntax: commune 'sanctuary'
Syntax: commune 'sanctuary' <target>

Shamans, healers, invokers, and paladins have the ability to grant 
sanctuary to himself and those around him.  Healers, shamans, and paladins 
are able to do so by communing to their gods while invokers have learned 
this ability from their long time training with war spells.  This spell 
grants divine protection upon those affected.  It has been known that a 
person affected can take an extremely great amount of damage and leave 
barely scratched.
~

#490
-1 SHADOWFORM~
SHADOWFORM
Syntax: cast 'shadowform'

Illusionists can hide themselves in a blanket of distorted light that 
completely hides their identity.  In this state, they are immune to all 
direct attacks from other people, and most attacks from creatures.  However, 
an area attack will bring them out of their shadowed state.  But, beware for 
there are certain strong creatures in the realms that can see through this 
illusion.  Certain guardians such as Cabal guardians, and other creatures 
that are supernaturally strong cannot be fooled by these means. A wise 
illusionist will do well to tread carefully in unknown territory.
~

#491
-2 vampire~ SHADOWSTALK~
SHADOWSTALK
Syntax: cast 'shadowstalk' <target>

When a vampire, has injected their Dark Gift into the shadows, the undead 
life will be breathed into the darkness.  The shadow will rise and will be 
locked onto the scent of the target of which it was called to consume.  Only 
the victim of the shadow will be able to see and attack the shadow.  However, 
the shadow's lifespan is only limited to night, hence long-term tracking will
not be possible.
~

#492
-1 SHIELD~
SHIELD
Syntax: cast 'shield'
Syntax: cast 'shield' <target>
Syntax: commune 'shield'
Syntax: commune 'shield' <target>

The shield spell creates a magical shield around the caster which helps him to 
deflect some of the attacks thrown against him.  It doing so, it also helps the 
caster by deflecting the critical attacks so that if an attack does land, it 
does not land with as much force.
~

#493
-1 'SHOCKING GRASP'~
'SHOCKING GRASP'
Syntax: cast 'shocking grasp' <target>

This spell magically charges the caster's hands so that it delivers a
magnificent shock as the caster touches his opponents.  The wounds from
this attack is a lightning-based attack.
~

#494
-1 'SILENCE'~
Syntax: cast 'silence' <target>

The dark-knight guild has developed the silence spell.  This surrounds an 
opponent in a sound proof force, preventing them from speaking and hearing for 
several hours.  While silenced, the victim cannot speak, nor can he cast any 
spells, for vocal incantations are an integral part of casting a spell.
~

#495
-1 SLEEP~
Syntax: cast 'sleep' <target>

The sleep spell causes the victim to fall asleep for a few hours.  While
under the spell, the victim will not be able to wake up on his own accord, he 
would only wake up if a physical wound is inflicted on him.  Necromancers, 
and psionicists are the only professions who have ability to learn this spell.
~

#496
-1 'SOUL CAPTURE'~
'SOUL CAPTURE'
Syntax: cast 'soul capture' <target>

If a corpse of a character happens to be before a necromancer of sufficient 
mastery, the necromancer can collect the characters soul - feeding the dark 
mage added health.  The soul is seen as a grayish shroud in which floats 
around the necromancer.
~

#497
-1 STAKE~
STAKE
Syntax: stake <target>

Vampires hunters throughout the Ages have tried to develop the most 
efficient way to slay vampires.  One such technique is to drive a stake 
through the vampire's heart. For those vigilant enough to catch a vampire 
at their most vulnerable, most were too frightened and fail to drive the 
stake into the heart.  However, for those steadfast enough to hit their mark, 
the vampire is dealt a devastating blow sometimes causing it to never wake.
~

#498
-1 'STONE SKIN'~
'STONE SKIN'
Syntax: cast 'stone skin'
Syntax: commune 'stone skin'

This spell magically turns the caster's skin as hard as stone, allowing the 
caster to take less damage from attacks as he normally would.  It is a spell 
learned only by only a few classes of mages.
~

#499
-1 'STRENGTH DAMNED'~
'STRENGTH DAMNED'
Syntax: cast 'strength damned' <target>

Targeting a zombie that the necromancer has raised from the dead, he/she 
can restore the zombie to the power of its original. Because this requires 
the most intense of dark magic's, the necromancer can only perform this feat 
once in a long while.
~

#500
-1 STUDY~
STUDY
Syntax: study <target>

A skilled ninja who wishes to assassinate another, must first study the 
actions of their target.  The ninja will study the behavior pattern of the
target for few hours then enter a deep trance in order to memorize all that
he/she learned.  Any interruption while in this trance will result in loss of
all the details that have not been burnt into ninja's memory.  The ninja will 
then automatically use what he/she observed in their attempt to assassinate. 
You may only concentrate on a single target at the same time, and your sight 
may be blocked by closed doors.

See also HELP ASSASSINATE
~

#501
-1 SUMMON~
SUMMON
Syntax: cast 'summon' <target>
Syntax: commune 'summon' <target>

This spell summons a creatures from anywhere else in the realm to the
location of the caster.  It can also summon other people who near the 
caster to the location of the caster.  Those who are of higher ranked 
are extremely difficult to be summoned by a person of lower rank.  Those 
who are fighting may not be summoned.
~

#502
-1 TELEPORT~
TELEPORT
Syntax: cast 'teleport'
Syntax: commune 'teleport'

The teleport spell randomly takes the caster from his current location 
to another location somewhere else in the realm provided his is not in 
combat.  This spell is very useful to get away from those who are chasing 
the caster.  However, it does not guarantee the caster safety.  The caster 
may end up in a worse predicament then he was.  While the user of this 
spell has a better chance to avoid unpleasant encounters with increase
in skill, the random nature of this magic makes no assurances.
~

#503
-1 'DRUID GATE'~
DRUID GATE
Syntax: cast 'druid gate'
Syntax: commune 'druid gate'

The spell randomly takes the caster from his current location to another 
forest room somewhere else in the realm provided his is not in combat.  
This spell is very useful to get away from those who are chasing 
the caster or quick return to the forest.  However, it does not guarantee 
the caster safety.  The caster may end up in a worse predicament then he 
was in even if the spell does prevent transport to a location with creatures 
of higher rank then caster.
~

#504
-1 'VAMPIRIC TOUCH'~
'VAMPIRIC TOUCH'
Syntax: cast 'vampiric touch' <target>

On contact, the necromancer can drain its target of both vitality and 
mana not only causing damage to the target but also transferring it onto
him/herself in a form of unholy healing spell.
~

#505
-1 VENTRILOQUATE~
VENTRILOQUATE
Syntax: ventriloquate <name> <message>

This spell throws the caster's voice, making it appear that some other 
object or person in the room is saying the caster's message.  Victims 
who sees through the spell will know that someone is using ventriloquism,
but not who. Victims who did not see through the spell will think that the
object or person really did say the caster's message.
~

#506
-1 VITALIZE~
VITALIZE
Syntax: commune 'vitalize'
Syntax: commune 'vitalize' <target>

Vitalize will increase the metabolism of the target, raising their
healing rate while they are standing.  The target will not be able
to sleep peacefully since his metabolism is so high.  While affected,
the target will get hungry and thirsty faster than usual.
~

#507
-1 WEAKEN~
WEAKEN
Syntax: cast 'weaken' <target>
Syntax: commune 'weaken' <target>

The weaken spell will drastically weaken the victim for several hours.  
This affect often causes the victim to drop their weapons, due to the 
lack of strength to hold it.  As the caster rise up in rank, the affect 
of this spell also becomes stronger, making the strength loss in the 
victim even more evident.
~

#508
-1 'WORD OF RECALL' 'GROUP RECALL'~
'WORD OF RECALL'
'GROUP RECALL'
Syntax: cast 'word of recall'
Syntax: cast 'word of recall' <target>
Syntax: commune 'word of recall'
Syntax: commune 'word of recall' <target>
Syntax: commune 'group recall'

This spell calls upon the gods of the realm to take the affected person
from his current location to the temple of his alignment in his hometown. 
The word of recall spell can be cast during combat.  It can be casted on 
those who are following the caster as well as the caster himself.  Note
that if the target of this spell has recently been in combat they will
be stunned for a moment when transported to their temple.

Group recall casts word of recall on everyone in the group.
~

#509
-1 WRATH~
WRATH
Syntax: commune 'wrath' <target>

Paladins have the ability to call upon the gods of light to strike down
the foes of the caster with divine wrath.  This wrath is most effective
against those who walk in darkness and less effective against those who 
do not have a firm moral commitment.  One should notice that this potent
prayer quickly loses its power against those seriously hurt or near death.

See also: HOLY WORD

~

#510
-1 ACUPUNCTURE~
ACUPUNCTURE
Syntax: acupuncture

This skill allows a ninja to thrust needles into strategic points in his own 
body, resulting in an alleviation of his wounds.  But in doing so, the ninja 
will be rendered less agile for a duration of time due to the needles in his 
body.
~

#511
-1 AMBUSH~
AMBUSH
Syntax: ambush <target>

This skill allows a ranger to deliver a surprising attack to his victim in the 
forest.  The ranger may execute the attack whether he is camouflaged or not.  
However, a camouflaged ambush has been known to inflict a more serious wound 
than a regular ambush.

See also CAMOUFLAGE
~

#512
-1 CAMP~
CAMP
Syntax: camp

Rangers are able to set up a comfortable resting place in the wilderness.  
Along with the wholesome fresh air and the healing powers of nature, they 
are able to put themselves into a deep meditated sleep.  This is a long 
term sleep however.  Those that wake up before they are fully rested will 
be set back instead.
~

#513
-1 ASSASSINATE~
ASSASSINATE
Syntax: assassinate <target>
 
Ninjas of high ranks may learn to kill with one hit.  To do so the ninja
must STUDY the actions of the target he wishes to attempt to assassinate. 
If you happen to fail in your attempt, the target knowing your intent will
change his behavior requiring you to study them again to even out the
changes.  Note that you can use "assassinate" command to see your current 
chance to assassinate.  Keep note that the better one's accuracy is, the higher
your chances will be to successfully assassinate one's target.  
 
See also HELP STUDY
~

#514
-1 ALIAS~
ALIAS
Syntax: alias <alias> <commands>
	alias # <commands>
	alias rem <alias>
	alias rem #
	alias list

 Forsaken Lands features an easy to use alias system to allow you to setup
custom commands.  To turn aliases off/on use "autoalias" command.

HOW TO USE AN ALIAS: Simply type its name and hit <enter> key.  
Example (assuming 'ca' is a defined alias):
100mv> ca

CREATING NEW ALIAS:
To create a new alias simply type: "alias <aliasname> <commands>" 
Example: 
100mv> alias cw cast 'word of recall'	//Creates a new "cw" alias

CHANGING AN EXISTING ALIAS:
To change an alias you follow same procedure as when creating a new one.  
When changing an alias you can also use its position on the "alias show" 
list rather then name.  Example:
100mv> alias qrec quaff recall		//Creates an alias
100mv> alias qrec quaff recall potion	//replaces with new commands
100mv> alias 1 quaff big recall		//replaces first alias on the list

REMOVING AN ALIAS:
To remove an alias type "alias rem" followed by its name or number.
Example: 
100mv> alias rem qrec		//removes an alias called "qrec"
100mv> alias rem 1		//removes the topmost alias on the list

LISTING CURRENT ALIASES:
To list all your aliases simply use "alias list"

See also: HELP ALIAS ADVANCED
~

#515
-1 WEAPON WEAPONS~
WEAPONS
 
Your skill in a particular weapon type determines how well you fight
using that weapon, and how much damage you will cause on successful
hit.  Proficiency in exotic weapons is determined by your rank.
 
Following weapon types are in existence:
Exotic, Sword, Dagger, Spear, Mace, Axe, Flail, Whip, Polearm, Staff
 
You may consult detailed help files for each of the weapon types.
~

#516
-1 BACKSTAB~
BACKSTAB
Syntax: backstab <target>

This skill gives thieves the ability to plant a dagger into the backs of 
their opponent, striking them by surprise as well as inflicting a massive 
amount of pain.  This surprise attack is only effective to victims who are 
in excellent condition.  Opponents of a much greater size may not be
backstabbed. 

See also: DUAL BACKSTAB
~

#517
-1 BARKSKIN~
BARKSKIN
Syntax: barkskin

Rangers have the ability, through intense concentration, to harden their 
skin like the bark of a tree.  This allows them to receive less damage when 
attacked by foes.  Rangers improve this ability with each new rank gained.
~

#518
-1 BASH~
BASH
Syntax: bash <target>

Some talented fighters may learn the ability to throw themselves against 
their opponents, knocking them off of their feet.  By doing so, the fighter
may stun their opponents, rendering them immobile for a short duration of time.  
Factors such as size and dexterity affect the effectiveness of a bash.

See Also: TRIP, BODYSLAM, GRAPPLE, AIR THRASH
~

#519
-1 'BEAST CALL'~
'BEAST CALL'
Syntax: beastcall
	  beastcall <raven/wyvern/displacer/leopard/mammoth>

Rangers, with their familiarity to the forests and the animals within, have 
the ability to call wild animals to their aid.  Many animals have been known 
to come to the aid of rangers offering aid in combat or as steeds.  The higher t
he rank of a ranger, the more powerful an animal he can call.

A ranger may attempt to call upon a specific animal, however if his attempts are
not good enough to lure the chosen beasts, no other animal will be summoned.

See also: HELP MOUNT
~

#520
-1 BERSERK~
BERSERK
Syntax: berserk

This ability allows talented fighters to enter into a wild trance, with their 
pulses racing and the whole body consumed with rage.  While in this state, these 
fighters are known to be able to strike harder in his frenzy, but consequently 
also let down his defenses more than usual.
~

#521
-1 BLACKJACK~
BLACKJACK
Syntax: blackjack <target>

Thieves are able to strike at the head of their opponents with a portable, 
concealed, lead filled sack.  This will cause the victim to fall unconscious 
due to the blow.  They will be unable to wake up for some time, allowing thieves 
to pick their victim's pockets clean.
~

#522
-1 'BLANKET OF DARKNESS'~
'BLANKET OF DARKNESS'
Syntax: commune 'blanket of darkness'

A dark mist seeps through the room, completely blocking all sunlight and
visibility from outside.  While inside, you are also isolated from the
surrounding environment.  You will not be able to teleport or scan out, 
and no one will be able to teleport or scan in.  Only by foot, can you 
leave this blanket of evil and darkness.
~

#523
-1 'BLIND FIGHTING'~
'BLIND FIGHTING'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Supreme fighters are able to learn the ability to fight while blinded.  
They will be able to use his other senses to compensate for the temporary 
lose of their sight, leaving them at almost no disadvantage from the blindness.
~

#524
-1 'BLINDNESS DUST'BLINDNESS ~
'BLINDNESS DUST'
Syntax: blindness dust

Ninjas have been known hide small packs of dusts in their garment with which 
they can blind their opponents.  Ninjas would fill the whole room with the 
smoke from these dusts, causing everyone else in the room to be affected by 
the dusts.  These dusts are very potent and may blind a person for hours.
~

#525
-1 BODYSLAM~
BODYSLAM
Syntax: bodyslam <target>

Berserkers are known to throw their bodies violently flying toward their 
opponents.  This maneuver may result in knocking the victim senseless,
stunned and momentarily paralyzed.  Some factors that affect the success of 
a body slam are size and dexterity.

See also: BASH, TRIP, AIR THRASH
~

#526
-2 vampire~ BURROW~
BURROW
Syntax: burrow

Utilizing potent sorcery and their ability for Transformation the kindred is 
capable of seeking shelter from the sun below the ground, only to rise as 
mere smoke when night has fallen.  While underground, they remain unseen to 
all that pass by, safe from the hunters the vampire can remain sheltered in 
such way, even if it requires immense concentration and ability. If you are 
damaged in any way, or you can no longer maintain your mist form you will be 
forced to the surface.
~

#527
-1 BUTCHER~
BUTCHER
Syntax: butcher corpse

Those guilds which offer outdoors training, train their members  to cut uneatable 
carcasses into eatable steaks.  Rangers can improve their butchering ability 
and can carve out more eatable meats from the carcasses, thus the portions of 
their steaks get bigger as time goes on.
~

#528
-1 CALTRAP CALTRAPS~
CALTRAP CALTRAPS
Syntax: caltrap

Ninjas have been known to hide small caltraps in their garments.  These 
caltraps are thrown at the feet of those whom the ninja is fighting with.  
The caltraps may greatly hinder one's ability to maneuver around while in 
combat and the effects generally lasts a few hours.
~

#529
-1 CAMOUFLAGE~
CAMOUFLAGE
Syntax: camouflage

Rangers have the ability to hide themselves amongst the bushes of the
forests.  They will be disguised from most of their opponents by doing so.  
While in a camouflaged state, rangers may significantly increase the damage 
done by ambush over their regular ambush.

See also: AMBUSH
~

#530
-1 CHARGE~
CHARGE
Syntax: charge <target>
Warriors, berserkers, and paladins have learned the ability to 
start a fight by charging at their opponents with their weapons. The weapons 
that they may charge with are swords, polearms, and spears.
~

#531
-1 CHII~
CHII
Syntax: chii

Ninjas are able to submerge themselves in deep concentration leading to an 
extraordinary control of their own body circulation.  This ability allows 
them to enhance their ability to withstand offensive blows from their
opponents.
~

#532
-1 CIRCLE 'CIRCLE SIDESTEP'~
CIRCLE
Syntax: circle <target>
	circle

Thieves with their stealth and speed have developed the ability to circle 
around and strike at their opponents while the opponent is engaged in a 
fight with another. By taking advantage of this disposition, thieves can 
unleash devastating blows at their unsuspecting victim.  If the thief
has managed to doublesheath a dagger, he will also attempt to draw it forth
and use it to best of his ability.  Daggers of high quality, light and easy
to handle as they are, prove especially useful for this purpose.

~

#533
-1 CLEAVE~
CLEAVE
Syntax: cleave <target>

Dark-Knights have the ability to start of a fighting unleashing a vigorous blow 
to their opponents.  Sometimes, when struck perfectly, the dark-knight causes
such intense damage that the victim may pass out in shock.  Note that the heavier 
two-handed weapons lend themselves more to this task then a light dagger.
~

#534
-1 COUNTER~
COUNTER
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

From their intense training in fighting skills, warriors and paladins have 
developed the reflexes and ability to turn their opponent's initiating attack 
against themselves.  With this ability, warriors and paladins can give back to 
the aggressor the blow he dealt and then some.  Monks are able to redirect the 
force of impact and use the an opponent's weight against himself as well.  But 
because this is a defensive skill for them, the damage dealt is a lot less than 
what warriors and paladins do.
~

#535
-1 CUTPURSE~
CUTPURSE
Syntax: cutpurse <target>

During combat, the wily thief can cut open his opponent's money pouch with a 
deft slice of his dagger.  This will spill some of its contents onto the ground, 
allowing those nearby (including the thief himself) to freely take the loose 
gold.  The opponent will continue to lose money for several hours until he 
can finally mend the ruined container.  The opponent may or may not notice 
that his purse has been slashed.
~

#536
-2 vampire~ 'DARK METAMORPHOSIS'~
'DARK METAMORPHOSIS'
Syntax: cast 'dark metamorphosis'

A spell accidentally stumbled upon by a chemist experimenting with turning steel 
into gold, adopted by the vampires to aide in their hunt for blood.  This spell 
alters the property of the vampire's weapon, causing it to hum in tune with the 
vampire's metabolic rhythms.  The weapon in the vampire's hand, will actually 
become a physical extension of the vampire.  The metamorphic nature of the 
weapon allows it to absorb the blood gushing from the wound it inflicts, and 
passing it on to the vampire.
~

#537
-1 'DETECT HIDDEN'~
'DETECT HIDDEN'
Syntax: detect hidden

Being masters of concealment, thieves and ninjas not only have the ability 
to find shelter and hide out of sight of unsuspecting victims, but they 
also have trained their eyes to be sharp to pick out those using same art 
as they.  They can see those hidden away in the shadows that a regular person
may not see.

This skill also allows them to spot traps setup around the land.  The ability
to spot the trap is directly affected by the trap's level compared to one's
skill in this skill.
~

#538
-1 'DEMONIC VISAGE'~
'DEMONIC VISAGE'
Syntax: commune 'demonic visage'
Syntax: commune 'demonic visage' <target>

The communer of demonic visage rips off their face to reveal a ghastly and 
frightening sight of demons and devils.  Startling the victim with such 
horrifying images, they might drop their weapon into their inventory from 
the shock.  They cannot be startled again while the images of the demons 
still linger in their mind.
~

#539
-1 DIRT 'DIRT KICKING'~
DIRT 'DIRT KICKING'
Syntax: dirt <target>

Consider by some to be a cowardly skill, dirt kicking gives the clever
combatant a chance to blind his opponent by casting dirt into his eyes.  
The blindness does not last long, but can provide an edge in combat.  
Dexterity helps in hitting or avoiding a dirt kick.  Warriors, thieves, 
rangers, berserkers, ninjas, monks, and dark-knights may learn to kick dirt.
~

#540
-1 DISARM~
DISARM
Syntax: disarm

Disarm is a somewhat showy and unreliable skill, designed to relieve your 
opponent of his weapon.  The best possible chance of disarming occurs when 
you are skilled both your own and your opponent's weapon.  Warriors, thieves, 
rangers, ninjas, and dark-knights may learn to disarm their opponents.  Monks 
are particularly skilled at this.  Note that some weapons are inherently better
at this then others.

See also: WEAPON
~

#541
-1 DISGUISE~
DISGUISE
Syntax: disguise <class>

Skilled thieves and bards, in an attempt to fool the masses, may disguise 
themselves to look like another person.  For a time the they may walk the 
lands as someone they are not.  While so disguised they may attempt to fool 
the guild guardians and attempt to sneak into the guild of proffesion they are 
disguised as.  If they do not want to be in disguise any longer, he may 
remove it by disguising himself again.
~

#542
-1 'DIVINE RETRIBUTION'~
'DIVINE RETRIBUTION'
Syntax: commune 'divine retribution'

The healer can call upon the wrath of the heavens, to form a offensive
barrier around the communer.  Any none light-walkers that attempts to
attack the communer while he/she is protected by the wrath will receive
damage from the offensive barrier.  With each square that the communer
moves, the barrier will reduce in duration, causing it to dissipate
prematurely.
~

#543
-1 DODGE~
DODGE
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

The ability to dodge improves the character's natural agility to the point 
where many blows will miss the target.  The chance of dodging is also affected 
by the dexterity of the attacker and the target.  Warriors, thieves, rangers, 
ninjas, dark-knights, paladins, berserkers, and monks may learn to dodge in 
combat.
~

#544
-1 'DUAL BACKSTAB'~
'DUAL BACKSTAB'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Experienced thieves may learn the ability to stab with two daggers,
inflicting enormous damage to their opponents.  A thief has to be wielding 
two daggers in order to dual backstab.

See also; BACK STAB
~

#545
-1 'FIRST PARRY' 'SECOND PARRY'~
'FIRST PARRY'
'SECOND PARRY'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Being masters of unarmed combat, monks have the ability to parry with their 
bare hands, as long as they are not wielding a weapon.  Each free hand gets 
a shot of parrying, as long as you are skilled enough.  Monks can't parry 
while holding anything in their hands other than their prayer beads.

See also: EMPOWERMENT
~

#546
-1 'DUAL PARRY'~
'DUAL PARRY'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Being masters of combat, warriors and rangers have the ability to learn dual parry.  
Dual parry allows them to parry with their secondary weapon, as well as their primary 
weapon.  This improves their offensive capabilities by giving them greater incentive 
to dual wield without loosing any of their defensive abilities of holding a shield.  
~

#547
-1 'DUAL WIELD'~
DUAL WIELD
Syntax: dual <weapon>
 
 
Because all creatures of Aabahran only have two hands, a person may
choose two of the following: to wield a primary weapon, a secondary weapon,
wear a shield, or hold a held item.  Only some competent fighters may learn
to wield two weapons at one time.  While dual wielding two weapons, the
fighter may attack with both weapons, giving them extra attacks against
their foes.  
In order to dual wield an off-hand weapon it must be lighter then primary 
and at most 3/4 of its weight.  If it is heavier then 3/4 of the primary, 
you may still dual wield if the secondary weapon is very light, or you are 
skilled in bladework.  
 
See also: HELP BLADEWORK 
~

#548
-2 vampire~ ECSTACY~
ECSTACY
Syntax: cast 'ecstacy' <target>

If successful, the target will feel immense pleasure, lost in a world where all 
their fantasies come true.  They will lose all contact with reality, lose all 
will to do anything, until the spell wears off, or physical pain snaps them back 
to reality. 
~

#549
-1 ENDURE~
ENDURE
Syntax: endure

Ninjas have the ability to submerge in deep meditation, leading to a 
heightened ability to resist affects of magical incantations.  Armed with 
this ability, they have a distinct advantage against those classes that 
use magic.
~

#550
-1 ENFEEBLEMENT~
ENFEEBLEMENT
Syntax: commune 'enfeeblement' <target>

Sapping the strength from the target's legs, this effect reduces the 
physical energy of the target.  In most cases this is only a temporary 
set back as there is no long term damage done to the legs.  However, in 
extreme cases it is possible to collapse the legs of the target, causing
 movement extremely arduous on the legs. 
~

#551
-1 'ENHANCED DAMAGE'~
'ENHANCED DAMAGE'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Warriors, thieves, rangers, berserkers, ninjas, dark-knights, and paladins 
can become skilled enough in combat that they are able to inflict more damage 
than regular attacks.  Enhanced damage is checked for with each hit, although 
with a low skill, the chance of receiving a bonus is very low indeed. Warriors, 
thieves, rangers, berserkers, ninjas, dark-knights, and paladins may learn to 
fight with enhanced damage.

~

#552
-1 ESUNA~
ESUNA
Syntax: commune 'esuna'
Syntax: commune 'esuna' <target>

This is the highest form of curative supplications.  The healing power of 
sunlight is channeled through the target, capable of removing all ailments 
plaguing the target.  Only healers have the ability to commune such a powerful
healing supplications at a much higher rank than the other curative 
supplications.
~

#553
-1 'FAST HEALING'~
'FAST HEALING'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

The fast healing skill improves wound-healing rates, whether walking, resting, 
or sleeping.  It is the general toughness and stamina of a person. Fast healing 
is checked every tick, and it is possible for it to fail.  All class may learn
this skill, but mages find it very difficult to master, due to their bookish
lifestyle.
~

#554
-1 GAG~
GAG
Syntax: gag <victim>

An useful addition to the thieves repertoire of underhanded skills, a 
successfully gagged victim cannot call for help.  Since a thief's
wonderland is in the city, a cry for help could foil his plans by 
alerting unwanted officials to the scene.  By applying a gag to an 
unconscious victim, a master thief can mug his victim without fear 
of being caught.

See also 'HELP BLACKJACK'.
~

#555
-1 GRAPPLE~
GRAPPLE
Syntax: grapple

Grapple is a skill that ninjas use to hold their opponents.  They 
utilize their dexterity and quickness to maneuver around their 
opponents and throw them to the ground, causing their opponents to 
be temporarily stunned.  Although it does not inflict a great amount 
of damage, skilled ninjas can use this to their advantage to prevent 
their prey from fleeing.

See also: BASH, TRIP, BODYSLAM
~

#556
-1 HAGGLE~
HAGGLE
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Haggling is an indispensable skill to the trader.  It allows a character 
to match wits with a merchant, seeking to get a better price for merchandise, 
or to buy at the lowest possible cost.  Unfortunately, most merchants are 
already very skilled at haggling, so the untrained adventurer had best guard 
his treasure closely.

~

#557
-1 'HAND TO HAND'~
'HAND TO HAND'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Hand to hand combat is a rare skill in the realm.  Learning this 
style of fighting gives the player a weapon even when disarmed -- 
bare hands.  Trained hand to hand experts are far more effective 
than many swordsmen are.  Warriors, thieves, rangers, berserkers, 
ninjas, dark-knights, and paladins may learn to fight with their hands.  
Because monks shun the use of weapons, they train particularly hard 
in this skill.
~

#558
-1 'HEALER STAFF'~
'HEALER STAFF'
Syntax: healer staff

Healers have the ability to create a staff out of pure energy, capable 
of healing the user when it is wielded.  The quality of the staff 
increases as the healer gets higher in rank.
~

#559
-1 HERB~
HERB
Syntax: herb
Syntax: herb <target>

With their extensive training in the forests, rangers have the ability 
to pick out benign herbs that aids the healing process.  There herbs 
allows rangers to heal their own wounds as well as wounds of their friends.  
As rangers rise up in their guild ranks, they also better their skill in 
distinguishing herbs and be able to choose out more effective herbs, 
allowing them to heal wounds with herbs more effectively.
~

#560
-1 HIDE SNEAK~
HIDE SNEAK
Syntax: hide
Syntax: sneak

Hide and sneak are similar skills, both related to remaining undetected.
Hide has a very high chance of success, but only works for as long as the 
character remains stationary or sneaking.  As well-trained as a person may 
be, he or she would still need to take some time looking for a hiding place.  
Sneak may be used when moving (including to sneak by monsters), but has a 
lower chance of success.  It is very tiring to move great distances while 
sneaking.  Thieves and ninjas may learn how to hide and sneak.  Monks have 
the ability to sneak through their extensive physical training.
~

#561
-1 INSECT SWARM~
INSECT SWARM
Syntax: insect swarm <target>

A ranger my call upon nature and bring forth a swarm of insects 
down upon their opponent.  The swarm lured by the rangers call 
will return to harm the victim again and again.  Some classes 
are unaffected by swarms of insects.  Hiding for cover in water 
may also help you survive the deadly swarm.
~

#562
-1 'KEEN SIGHT'~
'KEEN SIGHT'
Syntax: keen sight

Because rangers are the masters of forests, not only are they able to 
camouflage themselves in the forests, but they can also see those who 
are using the art of camouflage to hide themselves away in the forests.  
Keen sight is the ability that rangers have which allows them to detect 
others who are camouflaged.
~

#563
-1 KICK 'DOUBLE KICK'~
KICK 'DOUBLE KICK'
Syntax: kick

Kicking allows the adventurer to receive an extra attack in combat, a
powerful kick.  However, a failed kick may throw an unwary fighter off
balance.  Warriors, battlemages, thieves, clerics, rangers, ninjas,
dark-knights, and monks may learn to kick.

Some classes excelling in the martial arts can develop higher techniques
of kicking once they have achieved higher ranks.  They will be able to
execute more than one kick at a time.
~

#564
-1 'LAY ON HANDS'~
'LAY ON HANDS'
Syntax: lay <target>

Lay on hands is the ability developed by paladins to heal another.  
They may commune with their gods to impart healing affects to those 
in need.  Because of its wearying procedure, lay on hands can only 
be used very infrequently.
~

#565
-1 LORE~
LORE
Syntax: lore <object>

Lore is a general skill, consisting of knowledge of myths and legends.  
Use of the lore skill gives a chance of obtaining information on an object, 
concerning its power and uses.  While those with great intelect and wisdom
have natural affinity for this skill, a lucky fool has been known to give 
better readings then a learned Savant.  Bards due to their extensive wordly
knowledge always get a perfect lore reading.
When using the lore skill you will get a general idea of the object's 
origins.
~

#566
-1 MANA CHARGE~
MANA CHARGE
Syntax: mana <weapon> <mana amount>

Invokers have found a way to weave magic into a weapon they hold.  
In doing this the magic contained will be of benefit to the invoker 
in spell casting.  There are dangers that come with such a task.  
If the invoker does not have the mental strength to cast the spell, 
the magic in the weapon becomes unstable and flares with great force 
upon the invoker.
~

#567
-1 'MALFORM WEAPON' MALFORM~
'MALFORM WEAPON'
Syntax: cast 'malform weapon' <object>

In the blackest shadows, surrounded by the power of the darkest of gods, 
a Dark Knight may attempt to cast the most vile of spells upon his weapon. 
It is rumored that when successful this evil enchantment calls the attention 
of the evil gods of Aabahran, thus breathing malicious spirit into the target item. 
From then on as the Dark Knight kills with the object, the spirit within will 
feed on each corpse it creates passing the souls it consumes on to its master 
deity. When enough of such dark gifts are received the deity often blesses the 
Dark Knight by further increasing the spirits abilities. Yet until the 
intelligence has grown strong enough, it will slowly weaken if not on its 
master's person as it slowly bleeds dark powers. 

While it is written in ancient scripts that the most powerful of these dark 
tools have made their owner's all but gods, the exact details of the spells 
requirements have been lost in the chaos following Shadowspawns arrival.
~

#568
-1 MASQUERADE MASQUE~
'MASQUERADE'
Syntax: masquerade

The Kindred have exited for time immeasurable. Stalking the society unnoticed, 
their true nature undiscovered they play the deadly game of deception and control. 
Through those ages uncounted, the Elders have strove to control every facet of 
society that is their sustenance. This ancient tradition of deception and 
domination has been given name: Masquerade. 
~

#569
-1 MEDITATION~
MEDITATION
Syntax: AUTOMATIC
Syntax: meditate

This skill is similar to fast healing, but relies on the concentration 
and mantras to increase mana recovery when the character is sleeping or 
resting.  Those devoted to casting spells tends to learn to meditate a 
lot more easily than those who are devoted to physical combat.

Monks must meditate to regain their mental strength, while Psionicists 
do so in order to memorize their spells.  Both of these classes will tend
to regain more mental strength when meditating in their temples or guildhalls.
~

#570
-1 NERVE~
NERVE
Syntax: nerve

Through their extensive training in body control, ninjas have learned the 
various pressure points on a body.  They use this knowledge against their 
opponents, pressing on their pressure points in combat, causing them to be 
temporary weakened.  In order to attempt this maneuver, the ninja has to go 
dangerously close to the victim, even if the victim is directly their attacks 
at another, the ninja might still receive a blow from a stray hit.
~

#571
-1 PARRY~
PARRY
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

If at first you fail to dodge, block it.  Parry is useful for deflecting 
attacks, and is successful more often than dodge.  Parry requires a weapon 
for full success, the hand-to-hand skill may also be used.  The best 
chance of parrying occurs when the defender is skilled in both his and 
his opponent's weapon type.  All classes may learn to parry with their weapons.
~

#572
-1 PEEK~
PEEK
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Users of this skill are learned the ability to peek into a person's inventory.  
It is useful for seeing what that person is carrying, and to get a better idea 
about what to steal from the victim.  Those skilled with this skill are also able 
to spot hidden sheathes on those they look upon.
~

#573
-1 'PICK LOCK'~
'PICK LOCK'
Syntax: pick door
Syntax: pick <direction>

Lock picking is one of the prime skills of thieves, allowing them to gain 
access to many secured areas.  Lock picking chances are improved by 
intelligence, and hindered by the difficulty of the lock. Thieves, ninjas,
and bards may learn how to pick locks.
~

#574
-1 'POISON SMOKE'~
'POISON SMOKE'
Syntax: poison smoke

Ninjas have been known hide small packs of dusts in their garment with 
which they can poison their opponents.  Ninjas would fill the whole room 
with the smoke from these dusts, causing everyone else in the room to be 
affected by the dusts.  These dusts are very potent and may poison a 
person for hours.
~

#575
-1 'QUIET MOVEMENT'~
'QUIET MOVEMENT'
Syntax: automatic

An automatic skill that allows the proficient ranger to move in the 
forest without making any noise.  This makes his room leaving and 
entering undetectable.  Also, if the ranger is camouflaged, quiet 
movement (or sneak) will allow him to move about while staying covered.
Without it, the noise made when he moves will blow his cover.  However, 
quiet movement only works in the forest since a ranger is out of his 
element elsewhere. 
~

#576
-1 RAGE~
RAGE
Syntax: rage

Berserker, with their rash approach to combat, are known to be overwhelmed 
by madness during combat.  During this madness, they  are able to withstand 
more damage than they normally would, and can inflict a massive amount of 
damage at the same time.  They also have an immense thirst to fight that 
is only quenched at the death of a victim.  Thus, if his original opponent 
flees, he would attack the next person he sees.  Once out of this state of 
madness, the berserker returns to his original state.  He can no longer 
sustain the extraordinary amount of damage he can before, thus if he had
withstand more than his regular damage, he would go into shock and pass into 
unconsciousness.  Only the natural health of a berserker can revive him at 
this point.  Those that are naturally more healthy, may eventually recover. 

When born, the berserker's rage is onfocused and only offers a small fraction
of its capability untill the berserker chooses a focus for his deadly tide of
rage through Path Focus.  At this point his choice will determine the style
and ability of his rage and further frutition into more skills late in his
career.

See also: RELAX, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#577
-1 RECALL /~
RECALL /
Syntax: recall
Syntax: /

The gods have shown favor to the young travelers in the realm and looks 
favorably upon them when they are in trouble.  Thus, those who have yet 
to attain their 11th rank may pray to the gods to be divinely transported 
back to their hometown.  After attaining the 11th rank, the gods deems that 
person as experienced and would not help them in such fashion.  '/' is a 
synonym for recall.
~

#578
-1 REGENERATION~
REGENERATION
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Berserkers with their focus on physical training for combat have attained the 
ability to heal faster than those of other professions.  It is an enhanced form 
of fast healing that is only possessed by berserkers. 
~

#579
-1 RELAX~
RELAX
Syntax: relax

While berserkers are known for going into a state of madness, they have also 
developed an ability to try to compensate their temper.  Relax allows them to
calm down and snap out of that state of madness.  Unless the berserker has 
chosen the path of anger it has a very small chance of succeeding, although at
times, it's worth a try.  Those berserkers at higher ranks and have gathered 
more experience in their traveling would have a better chance at controlling 
their madness than those who are young and inexperienced. 

Those berserkers whom are skilled in the path of anger will always relax,
even during combat (a feat beyond the skill of other paths), and take only 
a fraction of the timer required for their bretheren

See also RAGE, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#580
-1 RESCUE~
RESCUE
Syntax: rescue <target>

When in combat, a warrior or a paladin may rescue their friends who 
are in trouble.  Rescue allows you to intercede in combat, protecting weaker 
characters from bodily harm.  Success in rescuing depends on the skill
rating, as well as a comparison of level, dexterity, and speed between 
the character and the target.  Only warriors and paladins may learn to 
rescue their friends.
~

#581
-1 RIPOSTE~
RIPOSTE
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

With their extensive training in combat skills, warriors have 
the ability to evade their opponent's attack, look for an opening 
in their opponent's defenses, and land a minor attack on their 
opponent.  The skill riposte is that ability. 
~

#582
-1 SCOUT~
SCOUT
syntax: scout <direction>

Scouting allows the player to scan further than usually possible.  The
range of scouting varies for each attempt.  If scouting failed, you
just scan as far as your normally can.
~

#583
-1 SCROLLS STAVES WANDS ~
SCROLLS STAVES WANDS

Certain magical items may have its powers invoked if trained properly.  
But if it is in inexperienced hands, the power of the item may fail to 
be invoked, even resulting in the destruction of the magical item. One 
may "recite" scrolls, "brandish" staves, and "zap" with wands.
~

#584
-1 'SECOND ATTACK' 'THIRD ATTACK' 'FOURTH ATTACK'~
'SECOND ATTACK' 'THIRD ATTACK' 'FOURTH ATTACK'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

After long periods of training, some characters may learn the ability to 
strike at their opponents more rapidly.  With the abilities learned, the 
characters may have a chance to strike out a second, third, or fourth attack 
in a round of battle, although it is not guaranteed that the attacks will be 
performed in every round of battle.  The more advanced of these abilities are 
granted to those classes that have devoted their training to the art of combat.
~

#585
-1 'SHIELD BLOCK'~
'SHIELD BLOCK'
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Shield block is a rather fancy name for the art of parrying with a shield. 
Characters with no shield block skill will not be able to defend themselves 
well with a shield.  Warriors, clerics, rangers, berserkers, dark-knights, 
and paladins may learn shield block.  Beware, it is hard to block attacks 
by flails and whips with a shield.  Some weapons may split shields in half. 
~

#586
-1 'SHIELD CLEAVE'~
'SHIELD CLEAVE'
Syntax: shieldcleave

Berserkers have the ability to put all their strength into a swing,
purposely aiming to break their opponent's shield.  This ability 
allows the berserker to take away the ability of the opponent to 
use shield block due to the opponent's lack of a shield.  Larger
heavier weapons are more apt to cleave a shield then a mere whip.
~

#587
-1 'SHIELD DISARM'~
'SHIELD DISARM'
Syntax: shielddisarm

Some classes have learned the ability to disarm an opponent's shield 
away from their hands.  With this, they can shake their opponent's 
hold on their shield and cause them to drop it.  Warriors, paladins, 
and dark-knights can learn this ability.  Monks are particularly skilled 
at this.
~

#588
-2 vampire~ 'SOUL STEAL'~
'SOUL STEAL'
Syntax: cast 'soul steal' <corpse>

Much like the counterpart of the spell, soul capture, the vampire can
drain the soul of the deceased victim and devour it to enhanced their
mystical powers.  The body, with the remaining life force drained,
will wither away soon afterwards.
~

#589
-1 'SPIRIT SHIELD'~
'SPIRIT SHIELD'
Syntax: commune 'spirit shield'

Available only to the highest-ranking healers, the communer can create
a shield made from the holy spirits dwelling in the light.  No free hand
is needed to hold the shield, since it floats near the communer's arm.
This leaves the hands of the communer free to complete other tasks.
~

#590
-1 STEAL~
STEAL
Syntax: steal <object> <target>

Theft is the defining skill of the thief, and is only available to that
class.  It allows items to be stolen from the inventory of monsters and
characters.  But beware, shopkeepers guard their merchandise carefully, 
and attempting to steal from a character may getyou in trouble with the 
law enforcers of the realm if you are caught.

See also BLACKJACK, PRY, PLANT
~

#591
-1 STRANGLE~
STRANGLE
Syntax: strangle <target>

Ninjas have the ability to maneuver around their opponents and strangle them.  
They use their quickness to run around their opponents and grab their necks, 
putting the victim to sleep.  This will render the victim unconscious for a 
few hours, leaving the ninjas to do whatever he pleases with his victim.
~

#592
-1 SWING~
SWING
Syntax: swing

Swings, a skill learned only by berserkers, allows the person to swing his 
weapon wildly, attacking everyone that is attacking him.  This skill is 
automatically engaged when the person starts raging and enters a state of 
madness. 
~

#593
-1 TAME~
TAME
Syntax: tame <target>

Rangers are able to employ their knowledge of creatures in the realm to
find the best tactics that could calm the creature down.  They know that 
many times a creature attacks because of fear or misundertanding.  Thus,
even if a creature is in an angry rage, rangers may be able to tame them
so that a peaceful solution can be found.  It has been known that even
in the middle of fights, beasts have been tamed by the skilled ranger.
~

#594
-1 THROW~
THROW
Syntax: throw <item>	(ranger)
	throw <target>
	throw 

Rangers, thieves, and ninjas are skilled and dextrous enough with their
hands, that they are accurate in throwing an object at a target.  Items
that can be thrown are created through edgecraft skill, with exception of
rangers who can throw most objects. Ninjas and bards have such expertise 
in throwing that there are certain held items they can repeatedly throw. 
Many of the thrown objects may be envenomed or otherwise poisoned for
more deadly effect.  The item MUST be in the inventory as easy access
is needed in heat of combat.

NOTE:  Highly skilled ninjas and thieves can use their double sheath skill
for a more potent and deadly uses of daggers and shurikens.

See also: DOUBLESHEATH
~

#595
-2 vampire~ THRUST~
THRUST
Syntax: thrust <target>

The ability of a vampire to knock a target flying by extending an
open palm and thrusting a powerful force toward the target.  If the
hit connects, the victim will be temporarily stunned.
~

#596
-2 vampire~ 'TWILIGHT SHIFT'~
'TWLIGHT SHIFT'
Syntax: ca 'twilight shift' <target>

This spell allows the vampire to Facilitate  short distance travels.  
The body of the vampire scatters into numerous bats, and they fly off 
toward the destination.  There is a small chance the bats will be confused 
about where the target is, and might end up in a random room altogether.  
Once at the destination, the bats will combine and once again, form back 
into the vampire.
~

#597
-1 TRANCE~
TRANCE
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Mages learn the ability to concentrate more than the average person, allowing 
them to regain mental energy faster than the average person.  This ability is 
an enhanced form of meditation.
~

#598
-1 TRIP~
TRIP
Syntax: trip <target>

Trip is a somewhat dastardly attack, and involves using any one of a
number of methods to bring your opponent down to the ground.  Tripping
large creatures is generally not a good idea, and agile ones will find 
the attack easy to avoid.  Warriors, thieves, ninjas, monks, berserkers 
and dark-knights may learn to trip their opponents.
~

#599
-1 TRIPWIRE 'TRIP WIRE'~
TRIP WIRE

Given enough time to prepare, a skilled thief is able to lay an undetectable 
trap to ensnare his victims.  By placing thin wires near the ground the thief 
sets a trap which will occupy their victim just long enough for a thief to steal 
and flee....or whatever else strikes their fancy.  Although the trap is set off 
automatically when unsuspecting victim(s) enter the room, the thief cannot leave 
the room else the unattended trap becomes ineffective. It has occurred on occasions 
however, that if a thief does not have luck on their side, tripwires have been known 
to snap in the thieves face.
~

#600
-1 VANISH~
VANISH
Syntax: vanish

Ninjas have been known hide small packs of dusts in their garment.  One of 
these packs of dusts that they carry creates a smoke screen with which clouds 
up the room for the moment, allowing them to flee out of fights and leave trouble 
if they ever runs into it.  This ability allows them to disappear and reappear 
randomly in the same area that they were in.
~

#601
-1 WARCRY~
WARCRY
Syntax: warcry

Warriors, rangers, berserkers have the ability to shout out a battle cry
before they enter a fight.  It is a moral booster that allows them to feel 
more confident, be more focused on the fight, and receive divine blessing. 
~

#602
-1 ANATOMY~
ANATOMY
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Monks and Blademasters may study the anatomies of general races, learning the weak 
spots of each.  They learn this from mere mobs (up to 2x level), yet sparring with a 
living opponent will result in far faster progress.  As they gain more knowledge about 
one's body, they are able to inflict more damage.  This is checked with each hit, with 
the success depending on the general anatomy skill.  The amount of bonus depends upon 
the knowledge in that specific anatomy.  
This knowledge also aids the monk in performing any stunning or special blows and
Blademasters in their critical strikes.

NOTE: Blademasters have innate knowledge of their own race's anatomy up to expert
level regardless of any expertise or mastery.
~

#603
-1 MEDITATE~
MEDITATE
Syntax: meditate

Monks and Blademasters gain their power in a different way than most spell casters.  
While the mana of others increase every tick, the only way for monks to gain mana 
is to meditate or stay in their guild.  Doing both will increases the gain even more.  
However, monks do not gain hit points during meditation unless they are in specific 
areas of their monastery or have fast healing.  While meditating, they are cut out from 
the outside world, just like if they were sleeping.
~

#604
-1 PRAYER BEADS~
PRAYER BEADS
Syntax: beads <mana amount between 50 and 550>

Prayer beads are the only objects that monks can hold without hindering
their unarmed fighting ability.  Monks can control the amount of power 
used in making their prayer beads.  The more power used, the bigger the 
benefits that come from holding these beads.  There are rumors that when 
the monks are near death, they may resort to using this string of beads to 
strangle their opponents.
~

#605
-1 'MARTIAL ARTS' 'KICKBOXING'~
MARTIAL ARTS BEGINNER
MARTIAL ARTS ADVANCED
KICKBOXING BEGINNER
KICKBOXING ADVANCED
Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Trained in the art of unarmed combat, monks can perform martial arts and
kickboxing moves while not wielding a weapon.  One hand must be free for
beginners martial arts, and both hands must be free for advanced martial
arts.  While the damage done by these skills is not as great as that done 
by a skilled swordsman, they can be executed in a flurry of attacks.
~

#606
-1 REVIVE~
REVIVE
Syntax: revive

This command is used by monks to revive themselves from self induced
catalepsy.
~

#607
-1 AURA~
AURA
Syntax: aura

Because monks are so devoted to their gods through meditation, they
receive a gift of being surrounded by a blindingly bright aura.  This
aura blankets them in warmth and safety.
~

#608
-1 'SENSE MOTION'~
'SENSE MOTION'
Syntax: sense

This skill makes it possible to sense the presence of people moving around,
making it hard to sneak past an alert user of this skill.  It also allows one
to sense presence of living things in the area though one can only distinguish
a certain number of life forms thus making it useless in crowded areas.

Ferals have an innate ability to sense motion.
~

#609
-1 HEALING~
HEALING
Syntax: healing

Through deep and heavy meditation, monks can undergo a healing session
which partly heals injuries and cures ailments such as poison and
blindness.  Because this is a wearying procedure, monks end up famished
and can only heal themselves once a day.
~

#610
-1 ENCUMBERANCE~
ENCUMBERANCE

Because monks and blademasters rely on their quickness in combat, if they 
wear heavy equipment, certain skills will be hampered.  Here is the list of
encumbrances.

area	weight		monk skills	    blademaster skills
arms    10      martial arts beginner       critical strike
legs    10      kickboxing beginner         battlestance
hands   5       martial arts advanced       double counter, snakespeed
head    5       sense		            predict
feet    10      kickboxing advanced	    footwork
body    5       speed                       spellkiller
waist   10      speed                       powerstrike
torso   15      extra attack                onslaught
~

#611
-2 psionicist~ OMEN~
OMEN
Syntax: dreamwalk <omen>
 
  Once you tuned into a victim's dream using dreamwalk ability
the dreamwalker may plunge the victim into a potent nightmare
composed of the dreamer's greatest fears.
The waves of dread and fear these dreams create are so potent
that the skills of the victim begin to suffer until in the
extreme they enter a full blown state of hysteria.
See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#612
-2 psionicist~ 'MIND THRUST'~
MIND THRUST		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'mind thrust' <victim>
 
 A basic spell in the psionicist arsenal, mind thrust uses kinetic and
psionic energy to damage and potentially weaken the victim's mental defenses.
The damage is mental in nature and thus will ignore invoker's mana shield.
 
See Also: Help MIND BLAST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND DISRUPTON
~

#613
-2 psionicist~ '1ST CIRCLE' '2ND CIRCLE' '3RD CIRCLE' '4TH CIRCLE' '5TH CIRCLE' '6TH CIRCLE' 'PSI CIRCLE' 'PSI CIRCLES' 'PSIONICST CIRCLES' PIONICIST CIRCLE'~
PSIONICIST CIRCLES
 
 Each spell in the Psionicist arsenal corresponds to one of six
circles of power.  Spells for rank 1 to 9 are of 1st circle, then
increasing by 1 circle of power every 10 ranks.  Hence a 29th 
level spell would belong in the 3rd circle, and 50th level spell
in 6th.
Psionicsts begin to specialize in their spell choice starting at
3rd Circle of power.
See also: HELP MEMORY SPELLS, MEMORIZE, FORGET
~

#614
-1 DISPLACEMENT~
DISPLACEMENT
Syntax: cast displacement

Psionicists are able to altar the path photons travel, allowing them to 
make their own image appear up to 3 feet away from them, making them hard 
to hit.
~

#615
-2 psionicist~ PHOTON~
PHOTON
Syntax: cast 'photon'
 
One of the first tricks a psionicist learns is the ability to add or 
remove photons from the air.  Using this ability to their advantage
a skilled psionicist is able to set up one way walls that block all
light given out by his own lightsource.  Shielded in such way, they
can remain invisible and hidden from sight of unaided eyes.
~

#616
-1 AWAKEN~
AWAKEN
Syntax: cast awaken <target>

Using their telepathic abilities, psionicists are able to cause people 
to wake up, even if they aren't in the same room.
~

#617
-1 'MENTAL DRAIN'~
'MENTAL DRAIN'		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'mental drain' <target>

Psionicists learn mental drain as part of their training.  This 
spell allows the caster to drain a portion of their victim's mental 
energy.  This energy is then absorbed by the psionicist for their 
own use.
~

#618
-1 'IRON WILL'~
'IRON WILL'
Syntax: cast 'iron will'

By controlling certain parts of their brains, psionicists can force 
their wills to be artificially stronger, making them resistance to 
stunning blows.  They will still receive the damage, however.

See also: PROTECTIVE SHIELD, FORCE FIELD, BALANCE
~

#619
-2 psionicist~ 'BODY WEAPONRY'~
BODY WEAPONRY
Syntax: cast 'body weaponry'
 
 A skilled psionicsts is able to manipulate the basic elements of their
own hands and imbue them with powerful elemental energies.  As a result
their hands become deadly weapons of significant force.
~

#620
-1 'EGO WHIP'~
'EGO WHIP'
Syntax: cast 'ego whip' <target>

While too much of an ego is looked down upon, it is still a necessity to
success, especially in fighting.  Psionicists can play with a person's ego, 
causing them to doubt themselves and become less effective.  The effects 
of this spell are cumulative and it will reduce mental defenses of its victim.
This spell's power is proportional to its target's defenses.
~

#621
-1 'TELE LOCK'~
'TELE LOCK'		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'tele lock' <target>

With intense concentration, psionicists are able to force the cells 
of a person to resist unnatural travel, such as teleporting and recalling.  
While this can be used offensively to keep someone from escaping, it also 
has a defensive use of causing someone to be unsummonable.
~

#622
-2 psionicist~ 'ENHANCE ARMOR'~
'ENHANCE ARMOR'
Syntax: cast 'enhance armor' <object>

Psionicists can manipulate the atoms in inanimate objects as well, such as 
armor.  In this case, they can rearrange the atoms to make the armor stronger.  
This is not an enchantment like the enchant armor spell.  It is a physical change, 
not a magical addition, thus it can only be done once successful.  Be forewarned, 
though, for if the psionicist is not careful, he/she may ruin the armor, or even 
cause it to overheat and melt.
~

#623
-1 'THERE NOT THERE'~
'THERE NOT THERE'
Syntax: cast 'there not there' <object>

Psionicists are able to place inanimate objects into the fourth 
dimension, which is time.  Any object in Psionicist's inventory
maybe so transposed, and will remain hidden from sight of all.
The only way to detect the small temporal variations that the phased
object creates is through the Detect Aura spell.
~

#624
-2 psionicist~ blink~
BLINK
Syntax: cast 'blink'
 
An Illusionist is capable of utilizing the art of short-range teleporation
to their advantage in melee.  By constantly shifting around, they can
'blink' right out of harm's way.  This allows the Illusionist to avoid many
otherwise fatal blows.  
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION 
~

#625
-2 psionicist~ levitate~
LEVITATE
Syntax: cast 'levitate'
 
  By controlling the air molecules under their feet, psioncists are
able to literally walk on air which becomes as hard as steel under
their feet.  The effect of this spell are easily extended to anyone
grouped with the caster.
~

#626
-2 psionicist~ PYRAMID 'PYRAMID OF FORCE'~
'PYRAMID OF FORCE'
Syntax: cast 'pyramid of force'

Psionicists are able to encase themselves in an ethereal pyramid.  This
pyramid dampens the effects of damaging spells and attacks.
~

#627
-1 TERROR 'FIELD OF FEAR'~
TERROR 'FIELD OF FEAR'
Syntax: cast terror <target>
Syntax: cast 'field of fear'

By reading the minds of their opponents, psionicists are able to figure out
what their phobias are and make them appear, causing the victim to flee in 
terror.

When psionicists grow more powerful, they can instill this terror-inducing 
power into whole room, causing people inside to become so instilled with
the fear inducing paranoia.  Those so affected find their skill with weapons
and other combat skills suffering while their moral is torn apart by the 
fearfull images.
~

#628
-1 ECTOPLASM~
ECTOPLASM
Syntax: cast ectoplasm

By reaching into the beyond, psionicists can conjure up ectoplasm.  
Ectoplasm naturally occurs in two forms, vapor and solid.  They randomly 
switch back and forth, with each form having their own special identity.
~

#629
-2 psionicist~ HYPNOSIS~
HYPNOSIS               AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast hypnosis <target>
 
Similar to the sleep spell this puts the victim under the psionicist's control
who forces the victim into deep sleep ready for further manipulation in case
of psionicsts studied in arts of telepathy.  There exists a single limitation 
in spell: You can't hypnotize people who are smarter than you, and any sensation
of pain or discomfort will snap the victim out of the hypnotic sleep.
 
See Also: HELP OMEN, DEATHMARE, MINDMELT, DREAMPROBE
~

#630
-1 'CONTROL FLAMES'~
'CONTROL FLAMES'
Syntax: cast 'control flames' <target>

If either the psionicist or their victim is using a light source, the psionicist 
can cause that light source to produce a ball of fire that hits the victim. However, 
the damage is much greater if the source of the fireball is from the victim's own 
light source.
~

#631
-1 FORGET~
FORGET
Syntax: cast forget <target>

By controlling the synapses in a victim's brain, a psionicist can cause them to 
forget their spells for a very short amount of time.
~

#632
-1 'MENTAL BARRIER'~
MENTAL BARRIER
Syntax: cast 'mental barrier'
 
By isolating and protecting their minds from the outside world 
psionicists can render mental-based attacks relatively ineffective
in terms of damage as well as success rate.
~

#633
-1 CLAIRVOYANCE~
CLAIRVOYANCE
Syntax: cast clairvoyance <target>

Using telepathic abilities the caster can search the targets mind revealing
not only what they wear, but at times are able to gleam the most intricate
details about the victim.
~

#634
-1 'CHII BOLT'~
STORING THE CHII
Syntax: store

Before the monk can release the chii bolt, they must first store up their 
chii.  First the need to have chii circulating through their body before 
they can store it.  The chii can be stored up to 3 different levels.

RELEASING THE CHII
Syntax: bolt
Syntax: bolt <target>

Each level of stored chii has different effects when released on a target. 
A level 1 chii will knock the target to the ground, temporarily disabling 
the target.  A level 2 chii can be released for damage, but if kept stored, 
a level 2 chii will cause the monk's attacks to become magical in nature.  
A level 3 chii shoots out as a barrier, and will cancel most 
barrier type spells it collides into.
~

#635
-1 'DOUBLE GRIP'~
DOUBLE GRIP
Syntax: double
Syntax: double <weapon>

Many professions have the ability to wield weapons using both hands.  
Warriors however, in their endeavor to develop differing techniques
stumbled upon the advantage of using only one weapon.  Grasping a weapon
with both hands allows a warrior to use the weapon with greater stability, 
obtaining greater control.  While double gripping a weapon, a warrior would 
be able to do more damage than he/she would using only one hand while making 
them harder to disarm.  Due to the nature of this technique only certain 
types of weapon may be gripped with two hands.  Staffs and polearms which 
already require the use of both hands can still apply this technique to gain 
greater stability.  Using double grip without a syntax will double grip the 
weapon you are wielding.  Double with a name and you'll wield the weapon from 
your inventory to wield and doublegrip. 

Note that while double gripping a weapon you still require the "two handed"
skill to control your weapon efficiently.

See also: WEAPON, TWO HANDED
~

#636
-1 HEROISM~
HEROISM

Being champions of all that is good, paladins have been known to venture 
forth on heroic quests alone, against great odds.  As preparation for such 
dangerous undertakings, the paladin can beseech the heavens for their divine 
favor in their heroic journey.  When paladins are filled with heroism, he will 
have divine wrath and good fortune for an entire day.  However, he cannot follow 
or lead anyone else for its duration, for such quests are meant to be undertaken 
alone.

While purified by heroism, paladins can commune wrath with greater power 
than they are normally capable of.  Also, their endurance is boltered tremendously, 
enabling them to travel great distances in pursuit of their opponents without 
showing normal signs of fatigue.  Lastly, paladins affected by heroism have been 
known to begin combat with a charge attack when they defend someone using the 
rescue skill.
~

#637
-2 vampire~ DARK RITUAL~
DARK RITUAL
Syntax: dark

Since the first Night-walkers roamed the land, their overwhelming power
was always shattered by the coming of dawn.  Through the ages various
members of the Clan have sought a way to remedy this cursed condition. 
Hidden within the Ancient Hall, a torn page of the Gum U'dal spoke of a
Dark Ritual that allows those of the Covenant to fulfill the Contract. 
Although the terms and conditions of the Contract is unknown, it is
believed that it will make a vampire impervious to the affects of the
burning sun. 
~

#638
-1 UNDEAD UNLIFE~
HELP UNDEAD UNLIFE


   With the release of the ancient forces of death from its
   prison in Pillar of Souls by Virigoth, the forces of Undead
   have once again begun their never ending war on the living.

   During the Coming when forces of Chaos brought terror unto 
   all Aabahran, with rebirth of Virigoth the ancient undead were
   said to all but raise in legions from under the ground and
   forgotten crypts. Yet those times are but history now and
   stories of terrible savants of night called Vampires, and 
   the infernal archmages of death the Liches are but stories
   used to scare the younglings.

   Yet even now rumors carry news of an ancient hidden cult in 
   the name of the Lord of Unlife. And sometimes, only rarely a 
   brief tale of some strange occurrence surfaces in the taverns
   telling of horrible beings seen on night roads of Aabahran.

   It is not without cause that the graveyards of Aabahran are 
   marked with the Snarling Skull for protection. As for all 
   the ignorance the wise know that the undead minions of 
   Virigoth, chosen among mortals for their loyalty and power 
   travel the roads at night fulfilling Its will in Aabahran.

See also: HELP UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS, VIRIGOTH, DEEZIL, VAMPIRE
~

#639
-1 DECOY~
DECOY
Syntax: decoy

Speed and deception are important tools that ninjas rely on in
their profession.  Under the cover of night a skilled ninja is able to
quickly dispatch a decoy confusing his enemy.  When an unsuspecting foe
mistakenly attacks the decoy, a small mechanism is setoff containing a
nasty surprise. 
~

#640
-1 ENTOMB~
ENTOMB
Syntax: entomb <target>

Necromancers can place their zombies in an inanimate state which the 
necro can return later to untomb.  This prevents their zombies from being 
summoned away or prevents zombies from following them all over.
~

#641
-1 'OFFHAND DISARM'~
'OFFHAND DISARM'
Syntax: 'offhand disarm'

Due to their extensive training in the use of weapons, warriors can 
attempt to work around their opponent's primary weapon to knock away 
their secondary weapon on their offhand.  This skill is similar to the 
disarm skill, and subject to the same restrictions.  Offhand disarms can 
only be attempted on targets which are dual wielding.

See also: DISARM, SHIELD DISARM
~

#642
-1 'CURE INSOMNIA'~
'CURE INSOMNIA'
Syntax: commune 'cure insomnia'
Syntax: commune 'cure insomnia' <target>

By calling upon the gods, healers can put an end to the torments of 
insomnia placed upon either themselves or others.  With the remove of 
the harmful insomnia, the target will be able to sleep and regenerate 
mana normally.
~

#643
-1 'CURE DYSENTERY'~
'CURE DYSENTERY'
Syntax: commune 'cure dysentery'
Syntax: commune 'cure dysentery' <target>

This spell will restore normalcy to either the caster or the target's
digestive system, so that food can be eaten without being expelled and
so that nourishment can be taken as normal.  Only healers have the skill
to cure dysentery.
~

#644
-1 'RESTORE FAITH'~
'RESTORE FAITH'
Syntax: commune 'restore faith' <target>

With an act of faith, healers can remove the doubts of another 
due to the blasphemy spell, and allow them to commune to their 
gods again.  Note that healers cannot restore their own faith, for 
they cannot commune while their minds are filled with disbelief about 
their religion.
~

#645
-1 'REMOVE HYSTERIA'~
'REMOVE HYSTERIA'
Syntax: commune 'remove hysteria'
Syntax: commune 'remove hysteria' <target>

Using this spell, healers can bring peace to troubled minds, and 
calm those who are in panic from hysteria.  Once the hysteria is removed, 
the target can cast spells and flee as well as he could before he was made 
hysterical.
~

#646
-1 HEX~
HEX
Syntax: commune 'hex' <target>

By their familiarity with various shamanistic religions, shamans can
place a hex on their victims to bring them bad luck. This spell cannot
be removed by any mortal means, save death. Even healers cannot remedy
the effects of this curse.
~

#647
-1 'UNHOLY STRENGTH'~
UNHOLY STRENGTH
Syntax: cast 'unholy strength'
        cast 'unholy strength' amplify

Before the rise of guilds in Aabahran, the Eternal Army ruled the lands by
combining rigorous physical and magical training with a strong central
leadership that drew from the combined powers of all its members. The
unholy strength spell is a vestige of that era, before the coming of
Light shattered the army. It allows dark-knights to draw from their own
life-force to strengthen themselves physically for a short time. A mana
upkeep is requires to sustain this state of heightened power.

Casting unholy strength when one is already under its affect increases
the power of the spell. However, this will also increase its upkeep.
The spell's physical limit is determined by the level of the caster.
One can also amplify the effect of the spell to make it last longer,
but the upkeep will be correspondingly increased as well.

At the end of the unholy strength, or when the dark-knight cannot
support its upkeep, the caster will feel drained from the effects
of the spell. Note that it is much more dangerous to enter this state
from failing the upkeep than when the spell expires naturally.
~

#648
-1 'VIRTUOUS LIGHT'~
VIRTUOUS LIGHT
Syntax: commune 'virtuous light'

As a special blessing for their chosen champions, the gods will protect
the caster of this spell with the Light of Virtue. Not only does this
strengthen the caster's defenses, but it will also cause them to be
better favored by Lady Luck. Only paladins are able to cast this spell,
and its blessings can only be bestowed upon the paladin who casted it.
~

#649
-1 'GENERAL PURPOSE'~
'GENERAL PURPOSE'
Syntax: NOT AVAILABLE TO PLAYERS
~

#650
-1 BLESS~
'BLESS'
syntax: commune 'bless'
syntax: commune 'bless' <target>

Some races may commune to their gods, granting divine blessing to 
whom all are humble and pious.  The spell will focus the minds of 
those blessed, improving their ability to fight and resist against 
spells.  The bless spell can only be cast on those with similar paths 
of alignments.  The god you chose to follow in life directly affects 
the blessing you will receive.
~

#651
-1 'DIVINE INTERVENTION'~
'DIVINE INTERVENSION'
syntax: commune 'divine intervention'

One who is of the cleric way of life may call upon his or her god to 
bring forth their power before all.  Since the powers of the gods are 
a mighty force, they can't be controlled by the cleric.  Thus, some of 
the consequences of calling upon this power may be unwanted by the cleric, 
depending on what god you follow.
~

#652
-1 'BLESS ARMS'~
'BLESS ARMS'
syntax: commune 'bless arms' <object>

A cleric may seek the aid of their god to bless an object that the cleric
holds dear to their arsenal.  Thus blessed object is not only easier and 
more effective in combat but also has powers beneficial to the cleric.
~

#653
-1 'RAY OF TRUTH'~
'RAY OF TRUTH'
syntax: commune 'ray of truth' <target>

As the truth of targets trespasses strikes home, the victim will feel 
great remorse and pain for all his wrongdoings.  This pain and remorse 
from his past, is the source of the power in the clerics ray of light.  
~

#654
-1 MINISTER~
'MINISTER'
syntax: commune 'minister' <target>

A skilled cleric may place a magical sermon in their opponents mind.   
Once the opponent hears the sermon, they are unable to get it out of 
their mind, and constantly think about it.  Since they are focusing on 
the sermon, they will often loose concentration and mental strength.
~

#655
-1 PORTAL~
'PORTAL'
Syntax: commune 'portal'
Syntax: commune 'portal' marker

A skilled cleric can conjure a magical portal that they may travel to, from 
most parts of the land.  To travel by portal, the cleric must place an exit 
point by placing a marker in the room they wish to travel to.  When the cleric 
sets a new marker, the old one is removed.  Travel by a portal, will always 
transport you to your current marker.
~

#656
-1 GATE~
'GATE'
Syntax: commune 'gate' <victim>

A skilled healer can conjure a magical gate through which they can instantly
travel to a target creatures location.  Stepping through such shimmering gate
they may cross the whole land in a single step.
~

#657
-1 extra~
'SPELL TURNING'
syntax: commune 'spell turning'

A skilled cleric may place a reflective shield around him/herself.  When the
arcane force of a spell passes through the shield, it may be reflected back
to its source.  The spell is then returned back to the one who first attempted 
it.  The magical upkeep for such a spell is quite tedious to the cleric, yet 
beneficial for their troubles. 
~

#658
-1 MONK MONKS~
MONK MONKS
 
Monks are ascetics who learn their skills at a monastery instead of a
guild.  Monks must practice rigorous mental and physical training and
discipline to achieve their powers.  Although they perform incredible
physical and mental feats, they cannot cast spells.  They receive their
powers through heavy meditation.  Monks are guardians of knowledge and are
also masters of unarmed combat.  Most monks shun weapons as the last resort
of the weak.  Because monks rely on their quickness, they can not wear heavy
clothing.  Also, due to their exstensive training monks excel beyond most
mortals in their skill in hand to hand fighting, surpassing normal
boundries.  Monks are also able to stay the killing blow to their opponent,
instead granting them mercy.
 
See also: MEDITATE, ENCUMBERANCE, EMPOWERMENT, STANCE, OFFENSIVE, 
          DEFENSIVE, MERCY.
~

#659
-1 HEADBUTT~
Syntax: headbutt

>From their brute style of fighting, berserkers have long since utilize their 
heads as part of their arsenal in combat.  They have been known to hit their 
opponents' heads with their own head, causing a temporary dizzying affect to 
the victim. While dizzied, the victim would be rendered too uncoordinated to 
cast spells. In some cases, the force is so great the protective shield of an 
opponent is shattered under the blow.
~

#660
-1 'WEAPON CLEAVE'~
Syntax: weaponcleave

Skilled berserkers have the ability to put all their power into a swing, purposely 
aiming to break their opponent's weapon.  This ability allows the berserker to 
render his opponent weaponless, standing helpless to take his beating.  If a 
berserker is holding a weapon with two hands, he can apply twice the power into 
a cleave.  
~

#661
-1 PANIC~
Since a berserker is hanging on by a thin thread in battle, the berserker may be 
overcome by panic when they cannot see.  During this panic the berserker may act 
unpredictably until his panic subsides.  Panic is something berserkers have no 
control over, and is a result of walking that line between insanity and sanity.  
This panic anxiety is a force of massive proportion to the berserker.
~

#662
-1 'MIND LINK'~
Syntax: stalk <target>
Syntax: control leopard
Syntax: break

Once rangers have gained sufficient knowledge of the forest and their 
inhabitants, they are able to learn a skill called mind link.   This 
ability allows the ranger to better communicate with the beasts that 
he has called to his aid.  By exploiting the abilities of these beasts 
they will be able to better hunt and survive in the realms.  However, 
since the connection between the ranger and his beast is so strong there 
might be unforeseen repercussions. 

'Stalk <target>' 
This allows the raven to fly into the room of the target, and the  
ranger will be able to see the room through the eyes of the raven.

'Control leopard'  
This allows the ranger to take over all functions of a leopard, 
allowing ranger to become leopard.  However, this leaves the body 
vulnerable and unprotected.  Also, if the ranger does not return to 
the body within six ticks as shown by the affect of mind link, the 
body will cease all life support, taking the mind with it.

'Break'  Allows the ranger to return to his body.

With mind link, other animals have extra abilities enabled. Displacer 
beasts will sacrifice themselves in place of their master while being 
summoned.  Mammoths will sometimes take hits in place of their master.
~

#663
-1 'PATH OF DECEIT'~
'PATH OF DECEIT'
syntax: commune 'path of deceit' <target>

As the deceit of an evil cleric passes forth, a powerful evil aura
surrounds the target suffocating them in the evil of the caster.
The more sinister and evil the cleric's past, the more powerful
is the resulting effect.
~

#664
-1 BLUR~
'BLUR'
syntax: cast 'blur'

Battlemages have the ability to alter the image of themselves as 
it appear to their opponents.  This spell will blur their own image 
to their opponents, causing their opponents to miss on occasion and 
generally make them harder to be hit by their opponents.
~

#665
-1 FORCEFIELD 'FORCE FIELD' ~
'FORCE FIELD'
syntax: cast 'force field'

For battlemages, force field is a protective shield like spell that 
encases the caster in flexible force field that absorbs any bashing 
attacks and converts the force of the bash into a softer, diluted impact.

See also: PROTECTIVE SHIELD, BALANCE, IRON WILL
~

#666
-1 'COLOUR SPRAY'~
'COLOUR SPRAY'
syntax: cast 'colour spray' <target>

Battlemages have learned the ability to cast colour spray.  This is a 
spell that creates a colorful bolt of light against the victim, inflicting 
damage upon the victim and possibly blinding the victim with the magnificent 
display of light.
~

#667
-1 SHATTER~
'SHATTER'
syntax: cast 'shatter' <target>

A necromancer can summon negative energy to be welled up inside  a targets body 
then causing a minor explosion within...doing damage to the victim. Depending on 
where force is most concentrated at the amount of damage and after effects will 
vary.
~

#668
-1 'TERRA SHIELD'~
'TERRA SHIELD'
syntax: cast 'terra shield'

A skilled battlemage can create a sentient wall of ground around him which 
can block weapon attacks in combat.  The spell can only be cast on room which 
there is earth to be moved and dispelled if caster moves.  It is rumored that
powerful and skilled enough Battlemage can breathe actual intelligence in 
ground around him, creating a powerful mobile ally for his defense.
This powerful enchantment requires significant upkeep as time passes.
~

#669
-1 'PRISMATIC SPRAY'~
'PRISMATIC SPRAY'
syntax: cast 'prismatic spray' <target>

A spell in the battlemage arsenal that shoots a burst of color from the hands 
of the caster to the target.  A random color will be casted every time, and 
each color has a different effect.
~

#670
-1 'LOCALIZE GRAVITY'~
'LOCALIZE GRAVITY' 
syntax: cast 'localize gravity [primary/secondary]'

A skilled battlemage may generate a force from themselves, that focuses their 
center of gravity to a more focal point.  This point coincides with the center 
of gravity the earth has, and magnifies the force.   This intense force can 
render an opponent's weapons and items to heavy, forcing them from his hands 
to the ground.
~

#671
-1 RUST~
'RUST'
syntax: cast 'rust' <target>

A battlemage may call upon the forces of nature to speed up the oxidation process of 
metal.  When a battlemage casts this on a foe, their armor or weapon may become rusty, 
making it less durable than before causing the victims combat performance to suffer 
accordingly.
~

#672
-1 'AIR SHIELD'~
'AIR SHIELD'                  
syntax: cast 'air shield'     

When a battlemage casts air shield, a layer of thick air surrounds his body.  
This layer of air helps absorb all non-magical damage, offering excellent 
protection to the traveler.
~

#673
-1 TERRAIN~
'TERRAIN'
syntax: cast 'terrain' <target>

A battlemage can make the target see the terrain as a completely meaningless 
collection of stimuli instead of the usual environmental type.        
~

#674
-1 BLADES~
'BLADES'
syntax: cast 'blades'

For battlemages, this spell gives them much needed attacks to assist them in 
battle.  The battlemage creates a pair of ghostly scythes to rotate around him 
doing slashing damage when in combat.  Since the deadly blades rotate around the 
battlemage, there is a small chance to deflect incoming weapon attacks.
This powerful enchantment requires significant upkeep as time passes.
~

#675
-1 FLASHFIRE~
'FLASHFIRE'
syntax: cast 'flashfire' <target>

A battlemage can create a bright flash of light that can temporarily blind 
all those around him.  The effect if successful until the victim's eyes can 
adjust to the flash.
~

#676
-1 SHARPMETAL~
'SHARPMETAL'
syntax: cast 'sharpmetal' <target>         

When a battlemage uses sharpmetal, they conjure a mass of superheated metal 
shards, and send the stream of deadly metal flying towards their enemies.  
Being able to direct the spell in such way, the caster can then selectively
pick his targets only hitting those in combat with him or his group mates.
Note that different shaped shards may cause different damage, and that each
target increases the cost of spell accordingly.
~

#677
-1 'PLUMBUM MANUS'~
'PLUMBUM MANUS'
syntax: cast 'plumbum manus' 

A skilled battlemage may create a standing field of increased gravity around
themselves.  When in combat, the battlemage's opponents may find their hands and 
feet to gain the weight of lead as the very gravity turns against them.  With 
the heavy burden of their limbs, the simple task of doing battle becomes harder 
with the added weight.  This powerful enchantment requires small upkeep.
~

#678
-1 'METEOR SWARM'~
'METEOR SWARM'
syntax: cast 'meteor swarm'
A battlemage may call forth to the heavens and summon fiery rocks, guiding them
towards himself and slamming them down in the vicinity of the room he stands.  
Since the battlemage has no control over the rocks, they could hit anyone near 
or no one.  The number and size of the rocks summoned is directly affected by 
casters rank and power.  While the groupmates of the caster are protected, the
caster himself is not.  The only known way to prevent damage to the summoner is
known to battlemages who erect powerfull forcefields to negate the damage.
~

#679
-1 SEAR~
'SEAR'
syntax: cast 'sear' <target>
 
A skilled battlemage can gather sunlight into a more focused ray and direct it 
to an opponent in a searing deadly beam.  Since little to no sunlight can be
found indoors and in dark areas, a battlemage can't gather the light in such 
places.  In some cases the light ray may be so intense, that it may leave the 
opponent blind for extended amount of time.
~

#680
-1 'DANCING BLADE'~
'DANCING BLADE'
syntax: cast 'dancing blade' <weapon>

Dancing blade allows a skilled battlemage to gain an attack through eldritching 
a weapon with its own life force.  Only weapons with blades may be giving such 
force. As a result of this enchantment, the eldritch weapon may attack a target 
through its own will.  The weapon will rise out of inventory upon combat and begin 
attacking as if it were possessed.  After the battle is over, the enchanted weapon 
will return to the inventory of the battlemage. This powerful enchantment requires 
continuous upkeep.
~

#681
-1 MANALOCK~
'MANALOCK'
syntax: cast 'manalock'

Manalock is a very valuable spells for battlemages.  While the manalock stands
it will automatically counter any attempt to dispel the owners spells.  Note that 
such powerful warding not only consumes mana each time it protects you, but it also 
requires a continuous upkeep.  
~

#682
-1 'REFLECTIVE SHIELD'~
'REFLECTIVE SHIELD' 
syntax: cast 'reflective shield'

A battlemage may surround himself in a shield that can absorb a portion of all
non-magical attacks and reflect it back to the opponent.  Due to its nature the
shield not only absorbs non magical damage but also partialy shields against
heavy kinetic blows such as bash and bodyslam, greatly reducing the effects of
those attacks.  The shield will retain some of the force absorbed and with 
enough energy may grow exited and emit powerful pulses of energy.  Thus the
battlemage may gain an additional attack at cost of considerable upkeep.

See also: BASH, BODYSLAM, FORCE FIELD
~

#683
-1 'HOLY HANDS'~
'HOLY HANDS'
syntax: commune 'holy hands' 

A skilled cleric will call upon his god to grant a part of their power into his 
hands.  If granted, the clerics hands become powerful weapons and any weapon they 
are holding, is removed.  Under the duration of this spell, the cleric cannot wield 
a weapon due to the holy power coursing through his palms.
~

#684
-1 'SPELL TURNING'~
'SPELL TURNING'
syntax: commune 'spell turning'

A skilled cleric can surround himself in a shield that may reflect a spell that 
is cast upon them.  The spell is then returned back to the one who first attempted it.
The magical upkeep for such a spell is quite tedious to the cleric, yet beneficial for 
their troubles. 
~

#685
-1 'THUNDERCLAP'~
THUNDERCLAP
syntax: cast 'thunderclap' <target>

Creating powerful explosion in close proximity to targets head/ears the
Battlemage may temporally stun and disorient their target. When trying to head 
north, the target may be heading east because of the noise.  Those sensitive
to noise may find themselves deafened by the mighty thunderclap.
~

#686
-1 'ISOLATE'~
'ISOLATE'
syntax: commune isolate <target>

Isolate is a spell used by clerics to split off a target from a group or split 
of followers from leader.  The main purpose of isolate is to disburse charmed mobs, 
so you can focus upon the master.
~

#687
-1 'TURN UNDEAD'~
TURN UNDEAD 
syntax: commune 'turn undead'

Clerics and paladins have the power to force away certain monsters 
that are "undead.  Those of holy faith can attempt to strike at 
that source of energy that places fear of the communers god, in the 
target.  This fear may cause it to flee in terror and be hampered in 
battle or magical defense.
~

#688
-1 'DISPEL UNDEAD'~
'DISPEL UNDEAD'
syntax: commune 'dispel undead' <target>

Clerics have this offensive spell in their repertoire, as a part 
of their priestly duty to ward off the undead.  This spell uses holy 
power to sever the targets link to the dark power, animating him, 
causing great damage to the target.
~

#689
-1 'CRANE STANCE' CRANE~
CRANE STANCE
Syntax: crane

The crane stance symbolizes the swiftness and extension of the crane.
While imitating the crane, this enables the monk to attack with higher
accuracy and precision.  Power is sacrificed into mobility, which enhances 
the swiftness of the attacks.  Heavy equipment hinders the swift movements 
of the crane.  In order to be as the crane, you must empowered in the 
offensive.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE
~

#690
-1 OFFENSIVE OFFENSE~
'OFFENSIVE'

Offensive is the state a monk achieves when they wish to focus more 
on offense in battle.  While in this state, a monk can do certain 
stances to help them become a better offensive fighter, as well as 
deliver a powerful stunning blow called chakera strike.  To achieve 
this state, a monk must empower	offense.

See also EMPOWER, TIGER, CRANE, DRAGON, MONKEY, CHII BOLT, 
	 AIR THRASH
~

#691
-1 DEFENSIVE  DEFENSE~
'DEFENSIVE'

Defensive is the state a monk achieves when they wish to focus 
more on defense in battle.  While in this state, a monk can do 
certain stances to help them become a better defensive fighter,
as well as use second parry.  To achieve this state, a monk must 
empower defense.

See also EMPOWER, HORSE, AURA, CATALEPSY, BALANCE, DRUNKEN, 
	   MANTIS
~

#692
-1 'PREYING MANTIS' MANTIS~
PREYING MANTIS
Syntax: mantis

The preying mantis is an unique stance being which it is the only stance
that is allowed with the others.  The preying mantis prepares the monk
to counterattack certain moves done upon the monk.  The monk will reverse 
the first move done by the attacker back on them.  To be as the preying 
mantis, you must empower your defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE
~

#693
-1 'TIGER STANCE' TIGER~
TIGER STANCE
Syntax: tiger

The tiger stance symbolizes the strength and power of the tiger.  While 
in this stance, the monk imitates the strength and ferocity of the tiger, 
and attacks with powerful strokes and kicks.  Concentrating on the offensive, 
the monk neglects his defensive.  Heavy equipment hinders the powerful 
movements of the tiger stance.  To be as the tiger, you must empower your 
offenses.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#694
-1 'HORSE STANCE' HORSE~
HORSE STANCE
syntax: horse

The horse stance symbolizes the endurance and stability of the horse.
Emphasizing on defense and endurance, the horse stance increases the
monk's resistance to harm.  The horse stance also allows the monk
to control their mind to resist harm, poison, and disease.  In some 
cases, the monk may reverse any attack back to the origin, but only 
with a fraction of the force.  The horse stance requires mental 
concentration so heavy equipment on the head will distract the monk.  
To be as the horse, a monk must empower their defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#695
-1 BALANCE~
BALANCE
syntax: AUTOMATIC

Monks and Blademasters have a superb sense of balance through their 
awesome control of their body.  Many attacks, such as bash and trip, would 
send most people to the ground, stunning them.  However, users of this skill
can often manage to stay on their feet.  They still receive the damage, but 
they do not have to waste time standing back up.  
Only a monk in the defensive or blademaster in deathweaver stance can focus 
enough on balancing.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE, DEATHWEAVER.
~

#696
-1 'DRUNKEN STANCE' DRUNKEN~
DRUNKEN STANCE
Syntax: drunken

The drunken stance symbolizes the spontaneous movement and elusiveness 
of a drunk.  The monk staggers around unpredictably, making it more 
difficult to connect a blow to the monk.  The monk will be affected by 
all affects of being drunk.  Heavy equipment will weight the monk down, 
preventing the monk from moving freely. In order to move as a drunk, a 
monk must empower their defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#697
-1 CATALEPSY~
CATALEPSY
Syntax: catalepsy

Monks are skilled enough to control their body.  Thus, they are able to
lower their body temperature and heart rate, causing self induced
catalepsy.  In this form, they appear to be dead, looking exactly like a
corpse, fooling their opponents.  However, they can still be attacked, and 
the mana upkeep is required.  In this state, monks do not know what is going 
on around them.  To appear dead, a monk must be defensive. To return back to 
normal, monks use the REVIVE command.  

See also REVIVE, EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#698
-1 EMPOWER EMPOWERMENT~
syntax: empower offense, empower defense

In order to use their more advanced skills, monks will have to prepare
themselves specifically for their tasks.  This process is known as
empowerment.  Monks can only choose to empower either offensively or 
defensively, not both.  An offensively empowered monk will be able
to use such skills as air thrash, while a defensively empowered monk
gains access to more advanced defenses like second parry and balance.

See also: OFFENSIVE, DEFENSIVE.
~

#699
-1 'MONKEY STANCE' MONKEY~
MONKEY STANCE
Syntax: monkey

The monkey stance symbolizes the agility and speed of the monkey.  While 
in this stance, it allows the monk to move twice as quickly during battle.  
But because they only have half the time to prepare, each attack only 
does a little more than half the normal damage.  While moving quickly, 
monks must consume lots of food and water.  Heavy equipment hinders the 
agility of the monkey.  To be as the monkey, a monk must be in the 
offensive.

See also,  EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#700
-1 'BUDDHA STANCE' BUDDHA~
BUDDHA STANCE
Syntax: buddha

The Buddha stance symbolizes the peace and tranquility of the Buddha's 
philosophies.  The Buddha stance allows the monk to take full control of 
his mind, resisting all harmful spells cast against the monk. This stance 
requires that no heavy equipment is worn on the head to distract the 
concentration of the monk.  To be one with the Buddha, a monk must first 
empower his defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#701
-1 'DRAGON STANCE' DRAGON~
DRAGON STANCE
Syntax: dragon

The dragon stance symbolizes the magnificence and longevity of the dragon.  
Filled with the spirit of the dragon, the monk will increase in size, and 
embody the health of the dragon.  The monk can also disarm easier while in 
the dragon stance.  Most equipment hinders the growth of the monk.  To be 
as a dragon, a monk must first empower their offenses.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#702
-1 STANCE~
'STANCE'

In conjunction with mental and physical training, a skilled monk learns the 
fighting styles and attributes of many.  The monk then focuses their mind and 
mimics that style with great accuracy.  The monk must assume that stance, to 
properly fight like what they seek to mimic.  Since the different stances they 
may learn do different things, they must either empower offensive or defensive 
to successfully do a certain stance.  Some attacks and/or effects are unique
to the particular stance.

See following: HORSE, MANTIS, DRUNKEN, BUDDHA, CRANE, TIGER, MONKEY, DRAGON
~

#703
-1 RESERVED~
RESERVED
Syntax: NOT AVAILABLE TO PLAYERS
~

#704
-5 Righteousness~ 'PSALM OF RIGHTEOUSNESS' RIGHTEOUSNESS~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF RIGHTEOUSNESS

Following is a long and involved holy scripture about the Order of 
Crusades divine right to carry forth its missions, and its origins.  
various bits of  high minded propaganda are intertwined with very
advanced combat techniques that would give any well trained warrior
edge in combat.  There is a large section devoted to use of something
called windmill towards clearing room of unseen foes.  You gather that
this psalm will not only increase the sheer damage the warrior causes,
but also allow keen aim and precision.

And that is all you remember...

~

#705
-5 Divine void~ 'PSALM OF DIVINE VOID' 'DIVINE VOID'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF DIVINE VOID

Following is a long and involved holy scripture about the virtues of
meditation and benefits of clear and focused mind on resisting effects
of various spells and maladies.  Throughout the long psalm are woven 
techniques and chants that could easily be found in a secret manual
of a monk monastery.  It is obvious that when properly used the psalm
would bring great mental strength to the user.

And that is all you remember...

~

#706
-5 Insight~ 'PSALM OF INSIGHT' INSIGHT~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF INSIGHT
 
Within are inscribed strange glyphs and runes that seem to portray
the effect of such meditation to further enhance the senses of a
person, and to better allow them to see with more clear sight and
vision than ever before. Intertwined within the glyphs are two
recurring runes, one for observing the moral traits of people, and
one for finding truth within what is ordinarily invisible.

And that is all you remember...

~

#707
-5 Divine Wrath~ 'PSALM OF DIVINE WRATH' 'DIVINE WRATH'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF DIVINE WRATH
 
Detailed within this psalm within archaic runes and glyphs, the writing
seems to instruct a being of whole body and mind on the arts of adorning
weaponry with the strange serums and powders to further enhance the
fighters ability to enhance weaponry designed to invoke the Wrath of 
God upon the nonbelievers.

And that is all you remember...

~

#708
-5 Shadow Bane~ 'PSALM OF SHADOWBANE' 'SHADOW BANE'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF SHADOW BANE
 
Chiseled within this great obelisk are detailed instructions for those
of the Order of the Crusades on adorning a weapon with certain bases
and stringents that allow the weapon to be imbued with light, and thus
create brilliant light flashes upon each blow of the weapon.

And that is all you remember...

~

#709
-5 Purewater~ 'PSALM OF PUREWATER' 'PUREWATER'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF PUREWATER
 
Recurring within the mystical glyphs and runes is the symbol for 'hydris',
or water. These runes seem to demonstrate how one who basks in the aura
of divine righteousness can adorn a weapon with purewater, and thus bring
forth this reagent during battle.

And that is all you remember...

~

#710
-5 Icefire~ 'PSALM OF ICEFIRE' 'ICEFIRE'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF ICEFIRE
 
Two intertwined glyphs, one representing ice, and one representing battle
are scored over a crossed blade here. It seems to be some representation
of how ice can be forged to steel to invoke its elemental properties from
a single weapon in combat.

And that is all you remember...

~

#711
-5 Searing Might~ 'PSALM OF SEARING MIGHT' 'SEARING MIGHT'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF SEARING MIGHT
 
The rune of fire here is interchanged freely with smoke and blood, and
the psalm seems to dictate to the user some way to forge fire to any
weapon, and invoke its elemental wrath in combat. The blinding forces
of smoke seem to be recurrent within the runes.

And that is all you remember...

~

#712
-5 Divine Might~ 'PSALM OF DIVINE MIGHT' 'DIVINE MIGHT'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF DIVINE MIGHT
 
A virtuous cross here is adorned with a black Ankh, denoting the glyph
for spiritual paralysis. Several elemental runes, mostly expressing the
powers of lightning, are intertwined within the runes, as if showing a
devout student the technique of adorning lightning to forged objects.

And that is all you remember...

~

#713
-5 Vitality~ 'PSALM OF VITALITY' VITALITY~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF VITALITY
 
The recurring theme of the glyphs seem to indicate some sort of rapid
healing ability. Several smaller healing runes interlace with runes that
denote an increase in ability, and a marked increase in the stamina of
the user.

And that is all you remember...

~

#714
-5 Swift retribution~ 'PSALM OF SWIFT RETRIBUTION' 'SWIFT RETRIBUTION'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF SWIFT RETRIBUTION
 
The fleetfoot rune is primary here, as is the glyph belonging to the
elements. It seems to portray a being passing swiftly through hill and
stream alike completely unhindered by any of the terrestrial forces.

And that is all you remember...

~

#715
-5 Virtues~ 'PSALM OF VIRTUE' VIRTUE~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF VIRTUE
 
These weather worn glyphs seem to represent a sort of prayer symbolism
that would allow the virtuous one to recite prayers at a much greater
rate. Several runes show men kneeled before large holy symbols, with a
small rune above them denoting some sort of ritual.

And that is all you remember...

~

#716
-5 Purity~ 'PSALM OF PURITY' PURITY~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF PURITY
 
The rune of the serpent is denoted here, being cast back by the healing
hands of a virtuous one. An aura of protection surrounds the being, as
if the poison of the venomous serpent were being deflected from harming
the devout.

And that is all you remember...

~

#717
-5 Constitution~ 'PSALM OF CONSTITUTION' CONSTITUTION~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF CONSTITUTION
 
The rune of the plague rat is denoted here, being cast back by the 
healing hands of a virtuous one. An aura of protection surrounds the 
being, as if the disease of the infested rat were being deflected 
from harming the devout.

And that is all you remember...

~

#718
-5 the Eye of Palison~ 'PSALM OF THE EYE OF PALISON' 'THE EYE OF PALISON'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF THE EYE OF PALISON

The ocular rune is significant in this text, as it shows a large needle
near the eye, which seems to be being repelled by some divine force that
keeps the needle from harming the eye rune of the devout.   

And that is all you remember...

~

#719
-5 Preservation~ 'PSALM OF PRESERVATION' PRESERVATION~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF PRESERVATION

The rune of sustenance is inherent here, as it seems to depict large
numbers of people consuming some sort of bounty, which seems to fill
their hungers with only half the normal requirement. A glyph of the
infinite seems to surround much of the glyphs of repast.

And that is all you remember...

~

#720
-5 Final Parting~ 'PSALM OF FINAL PARTING' 'FINAL PARTING'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF FINAL PARTING

This series of glyphs depicts the Evil Ones battling the devout. As they
are felled one by one, the last remains to battle the virtuous one, and
chooses instead to flee. As he does so, the devout appears to deal the
Wrath of God upon the fleeing Evil One.

And that is all you remember...

~

#721
-5 Divine Health~ 'PSALM OF DIVINE HEALTH' 'DIVINE HEALTH'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF DIVINE HEALTH

The rune of health is inherent here, as it seems to portray a devout one
within breaths of death suddenly awaken renewed and healthy in a very
rapid amount of time. The runes of blood are suddenly washed away by the
healing powers of the runes.

And that is all you remember...

~

#722
-5 Vicarious Redemption~ 'PSALM OF VICARIOUS REDEMPTION' 'VICARIOUS REDEMPTION'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF VICARIOUS REDEMPTION

The runes of death here are primary. They seem to surround what appears to
be a dying virtuous one, but, as he nears his final demise, he is suddenly
pulled to health and safety by a mass of worshippers, denoted by the star
glyphs.

And that is all you remember...

~

#723
-5 the Triumph of One God~ 'PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF ONE GOD' 'THE TRIUMPH OF ONE GOD~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF ONE GOD

Large runes of safety and protection adorn this obelisk. Primary runes
are heroism and the guardian glyph, denoting the safety and concern for
all involved in a devout one's traveling party. It also seems to portray
a virtuous one kneeling over the body of a fallen ally, as their life
essence is restored.

And that is all you remember...

~

#724
-5 the Triumph of Sirant~ 'PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF SIRANT' 'THE TRIUMPH OF SIRANT'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF SIRANT

Depicted within these glyphs is a scene, showing a truly devout student
battling a horde of foes. Greatly outnumbered, the rune of power comes
into play, and the devout one lays waste to countless numbers of Evil
Ones. However, the negatory rune is visible above the devout, proving
evidence that this psalm cannot be used in conjunction with others.

And that is all you remember...

~

#725
-5 the Triumph of Palison~ 'PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF PALISON' 'THE TRIUMPH OF PALISON'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF THE TRIUMPH OF PALISON

Evidence of the Lord Palison's holy war against the minions of the damned,
this psalm depicts a holy warrior battling hordes of undead creatures.
As each one is lain to waste, the devout is overcome with the life rune,
as his body's condition is made anew. The negatory rune is also evident
here, providing proof that this psalm cannot be used with others.

And that is all you remember...

~

#726
-5 Undeniable Order~ 'PSALM OF UNDENIABLE ORDER' 'UNDENIABLE ORDER'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF UNDENIABLE ORDER

A glyph showing a devout one lavished in rare and unique adornments, this
psalm has three major runes: The vengeance rune, the mission rune, and the 
capital rune, denoting removal of the foe's head. The glyphs further show 
one under the influence of the psalm laying waste to the corrupt and 
damned, and in turn receiving incredible power from doing so.

And that is all you remember...

~

#727
-5 Inner Strength~ 'PSALM OF INNER STRENGTH' 'INNER STRENGTH'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF INNER STRENGTH

The fist rune, showing in conjunction with the sword rune depict one
of the virtuous ones gripping a weapon of immense power with both hands
as his arms and body surge with inner strength. The negatory rune is also
evident here, proving that this psalm cannot be used in conjunction with
others.

And that is all you remember...

~

#728
-5 Baptism~ 'PSALM OF BAPTISM' BAPTISM~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF BAPTISM

The runes within depict a virtuous one immersed within cleansing water,
and awaking renewed and refreshed with little memory of past deeds,
psalms, or acts.

And that is all you remember...

~

#729
-5 Inner Peace~ 'PSALM OF INNER PEACE' 'INNER PEACE'~
You search your memory and recall what you saw on the obelisk...

PSALM OF INNER PEACE

The runes within depict a virtuous one immersed in prayer before an
altar.  Runes depicting passage of days and nights circle the rune
of the holy one, and a single mark of glowing blade floats below the
depiction.

And that is all you remember...

~

#730
-1 'CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS'~
CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS

  Classes: Warrior, Paladin, Berserker
  Races	 : Elf, Half-Elf, Human, Storm Giant
  Level	 : 50
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "crusader application" in application subject
  - Must be good aligned
  - Must be follower of the One God
  - Cannot be an Avatar
  - Cannot be member of any cabal
  
You must send a scroll of application to Immortals, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words crusader
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is approved 
by the Order of Crusades you shall be made to know what else is required 
of you.

When you become a Crusader, you will be reduced to the first rank of
the Order of Crusades, with applicable abilities, health and mindpower.
Any skills which you may be allowed to use in future will be kept, all
others are forgotten. 

The following skills are added based on your profession:
Paladin  : Scrolls
Berserker: Roar
Warrior  : Whip

See also: CRUSADERS, ORDER OF CRUSADES, SELECT
~

#731
-1 'ORDER OF CRUSADES'~
ORDER OF CRUSADES

BEGINNINGS
  The Order of Crusades was first founded in the 5th age of Aabahran by a 
single hermit of name Ontius.  The land was beset by evil, and seeing the 
forces of Light slowly dwindling the wizened hermit journeyed forth and 
gather a few men and women of blade about him, only to teach them the ways 
of the One God.  

HISTORY
  The Order, first based out of an old church with leaky roof set deep within
the Dragon Teeth, was first joined by Auron, Tyrith, Elyventheril, Barzuke as 
well as Garamand and Versutius.  Following the teachings of Ontius they rose 
in power and soon reached their pinnacles.  With their rise in strength the 
Order slowly expanded as the old church was slowly being converted into a 
mighty fortress it is now.

The key event that established the Order of Crusades existence and foot hold 
against the darkness of the land, was the raid of the Order against the 
fortress of the Hooded Ones, in which Auron, Garamand and Versutius led the 
soldiers of the Order of Crusades into a complete victory resulting in  the 
destruction of cabal known as Conclave which forever banished the secret cult.

Ever since the Order of Crusades has stood vigilant and strong against any 
sight of evil in the land.  Sending its valiant men and women to aid those in 
need, and to fight the evil.

MISSION
The Order of Crusades with its mission set upon by Ontius the Hermit seeks to
help the land and forces of light not by militant ways, but by sheer power of
acts of goodness and sacrfice performed by its members.
The virtues of Kindness, Modesty, Honor and Sacrifice are ever the foremost in 
its members, and they are expected to act as priests and healers before 
warriors and to answer any call for help regardless of circumstance.

See also, CRUSADER, CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS
~

#732
-1 CRUSADER CRUSADERS~
CRUSADER

  Trained by the Order of Crusades these mighty men and women of the
One God, travel through Aabahran helping those in need, avenging
wrongs done, and Crusading against those whom would seek to harm the less
fortunate.  Honor, Valor and above all Modesty are their virtues,
requiring a Crusader to act as priests first then warriors, without the
easy miracles of common deities.

  Crusaders are warriors who have chosen to use Faith as the focus for their
skills, at times honing them to such degree that their feats all but
surpass the mortal realm.  As they progress through ranks they are offered
choices in skills, these choices in turn affecting what other skills they
will have available in future.  The end result of this process is that no
two Crusaders are alike, as the choices they make often drastically affect
the things they may excel or do poorly in.

  Rejecting delicate and non direct methods of combat, they relay upon brutal
combination of skill and strength combined with legendary arts of weaponcraft 
and armorcraft which allows them to excel in combat against single or multiple
opponents.  Experts of two handed weapons, they never use shields relying
instead on armors so thick and heavy that legends have been sung about
their ability to wade through battle unharmed by blows of ordinary blades.
They carry weapons consecrated to their god which increase in power as the
Crusader fulfills his duties to the Order.  These holy weapons seem to 
withstand the most brutal of modifications and many a foe has been brought
to his knees by a mere sight of a blade bristling with gleaming edges, barbs
and hooked guards leveled at their chest.

  The Crusader's focus upon the matters of faith and their virtues of Modesty,
Compassion and Valour not only requires them to forsake personal goals when
asked for help by those in need, but the Order of Crusades forbids them to
bask in large number of rare or unique adornments upon their armor.  This 
severely limits the number of such items they may wear or carry.  

See also: SELECT, CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS, ORDER OF CRUSADES
~

#733
-2 crusader~ CRUSADER CRUSADERS 'ORDER OF CRUSADES'~
See also: OBELISKS, PSALMS, STARSTONE, MODIFY, CRUSADER LIMIT
~

#734
-2 crusader~ 'CRUSADER LIMIT'~
CRUSADER LIMIT

  The Order of Crusades' focus upon independence, and virtue of Modesty
severely limits the number of rare, limited or cabal items a Crusader may
carry or wear.
 
  The Crusader has double the limit of other mortals when limited items are
saved, but rare, limited and cabal items are counted both in inventory and
on body towards this total.

*NOTE: There is a special condition for a cabal item to be counted as
a limited item towards crusader total limit.  If the item is of rank 
greater then 30th OR its cost is higher then 125 as per identify/lore
it will be counted as limited item.

See also: WEAPONCRAFT, AMORCRAFT, CRUSADER, ORDER OF CRUSADES
~

#735
-2 crusader~ OBELISK OBELISKS~
OBELISKS
  
  Foreseeing great trails and dangers ahead of them, the Order of Crusades
commissioned the dwarven Master Smiths to construct number of stone markers
throughout the land.  Upon these obelisks were then inscribed the Order's
teachings, and secrets to keep their knowledge forever safe.

To safeguard the history, philosophy as well as secrets of the Order, the
inscriptions were scribed in form of Psalms, which worthy Crusaders would
commit to memory to be chanted when needed.

See also: CHANT, PSALMS, STARSTONE
~

#736
-2 crusader~ PSALMS PSALM~
PSALMS
syntax: psalms		: shows list of memorized psalms

  Scattered through the lands are the Obelisks created by the Order of
Crusades.  Each one holds a holy psalm upon its surface, which can
be memorized by using the Obelisk.  The Obelisks were created by the
dwarven Master Smiths, and are imbued with powerful magics that not
only protect them, but also cause many of them to shift to various
locations with time.

A Crusader who has found such an Obelisk, may memorize the Psalm which
has been inscribed upon the stone by "using" it at which point its 
inscription may be recalled at any time using the "help" command.  
Only a limited number of Psalms may be memorized in a lifetime, slowly 
increasing in number up to maximum of eight at peak of Crusader's power.

A single special Psalm exists upon the Obelisk of Baptism which when
chanted, will wipe the Crusaders memory of Psalms clean at the same
time forever lowering the maximum number that may be memorized by one.

See also: OBELISKS, CHANT, USE
~

#737
-2 crusader~ CHANT~
CHANT
syntax: chant <psalm>	:chants a given psalm
	chant <number>	:chants a psalm of given number as per "psalms"
	interrupt	:interrupts the process

  The Order of Crusades' focus on spiritual health and its goals of
independence have resulted in Crusaders being taught the ancient art
of chants and lore of Psalms.

A Crusader may chant a memorized psalm, using it to focus their mind 
and body to the point where their abilities begin to surpass the mundane.
The concentration involved is enormous, and when a chant begins, the
Crusader will not be able to do anything but meditate and chant.

Only a single Psalm may be held in one's mind at any given time and
only death or natural expiration will remove them.

See also: PSALMS, OBELISKS, INTERRUPT
~

#738
-1 STARSTONE STARSTONES~
STARSTONES

Fulfilling their goal of independence and self-sustenance the Order of
Crusades made great efforts to gather every tome, scripture and rumors
that could further benefit their already advanced metallurgic techniques.
One of such ancient tomes led to discovery of a wondrous mineral called
Starstone, which oft could be found amidst giant craters in the land
as if the earth was trying to expel the strange stone.

The stone maybe found scattered through the lands in various locations
in form of slabs of starstone often burnt and scarred but never shattered.
It's properties are many, and most wondrous or almost magical in nature.
The stone has almost no weight, yet a slight momentum results in impetus
worthy of lead or gold, it resists extreme stress and shear and is all
but impervious to non magical fires.

With cooperation of the dwarven Master Smiths in trade for the secrets
of this stone, the Order of Crusades has developed unique ways of working
the starstones and guards its properties with dangerous secrecy.

See also: ARMORCRAFT, WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY
~

#739
-2 crusader~ 'SHOULDER SMASH'~
SHOULDER SMASH
Syntax: shoulder
	shoulder <target>

Using the sheer kinetic force of their heavy armors and body, the 
user of this skill hurls his or her body at the given target.  Unlike
the likes of bash or bodyslam however, the objective is to cause brutal
damage to the victim.  Often the target is hit so hard as to make defense
or movement difficult, and some were known to get pummeled so hard by
this armored charge as to loose grip of weapons or shields.
~

#740
-2 crusader~ 'ARMORED RUSH'~
ARMORED RUSH
Syntax: rush
	rush <target>

As masters of the brutal two handed combat tactics,  Crusaders forgo maneuvers
such as bash and trip and use their giant weapons to bring whole groups of 
enemies to a standstill.  Using their arms in such way as to stun their 
enemies rather then cause damage, they are more the capable of sending the 
most stalwart foes to their knees through sheer kinetic force.  Charging so 
into the fray, their armor absorbing the blows, the Crusader swings his 
massive weapon about knocking his foes down as if they were mere practice 
dummies.  
~

#741
-2 crusader~ MINOR~
MINOR
  The Minor skill group is the first group of skill choices a Crusader
may select from using the "select" command.  It contains six skill from 
which three will be chosen at various ranks.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  2h handling			NONE			orealts 1st
  2h tactics			NONE			NONE
  history of armaments		NONE			NONE
  arms maintenance		NONE			NONE
  basic armor			NONE			NONE
  orealts 1st			NONE			2h handling

For further help on each skill use "help" command.
See also: SELECT, MAJOR, SPECIALTY, SIGNATURE
~

#742
-2 crusader~ '2H HANDLING~
2H HANDLING
syntax: automatic

  The theory of handling large two handed weapons as well as best stances
holds and storage techniques to reduce bulk and effort required to use them.
This skills starts the crusader on the path to disciplines allowing for
great speed in combat and offensive ability.
All two handed weapon weight requirements are halved.

See also: MINOR
~

#743
-2 crusader~ '2H TACTICS~
2H HANDLING
syntax: low             : defensive weapon position
        normal          : standard weapon position
        high            : offensive weapon position
  Theories of advanced combat tactics with two handed weapons, allowing the
user to alter their stances and combat maneuvers to place the weapon in
various positions.  The high position is perfect when greater offense is 
needed, sacrificing a bit of defense for increased offense.  The low position
is an antithesis of high, sacrificing a bit of offense for better defense.
See also: MINOR
~

#744
-2 crusader~ 'HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS~
HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS
syntax: automatic
	
  The study of history and principles of personal combat, with focus on
use of weapons and more importantly ways to stop them.  This skill will
start the Crusader on the path of constructing advanced armors beyond skills
of common artisans.
Allows for better appraising of armors with "lore".
Allows for journeyman level of armor modification.

See also: MINOR, MODIFY, ARMORCRAFT
~

#745
-2 crusader~ 'ARMS MAINTENANCE~
ARMS MAINTENANCE
syntax: automatic

  The study of history and principles of personal combat, with focus on
use of weapons and their construction or maintenance.  This skill will
start the Crusader on the path of adding useful modifications to his weapons
beyond the skill of common artisans.
Allows for better appraising of weapons with "lore".
Allows for journeyman level of weapon modification.

See also: MINOR, MODIFY, WEAPONCRAFT
~

#746
-2 crusader~ 'BASIC ARMOR~
BASIC ARMOR
syntax: automatic

Teachings on principles of armor usage, and best ways of protecting flesh
with it.  Unlike history of armaments, this skill focuses on best ways
of placing the armor rather then principles behind its construction.
Increases the over all benefit gained from all armors.
Decreases the burden an armor places on the user when worn.

See also: MINOR
~

#747
-2 crusader~ 'OREALTS 1ST' 'OREALTS FIRST'~
OREALTS FIRST
syntax: automatic

  In an official holy ceremony, the Order of Crusades allows the pupil to
read the First Tome of Orealt, a collection of thoughts and teachings scribed
by the great elven Paladin before his sacrifice.  The Tome is said to focus
on tactics of single combat and has never failed to enlighten the student in
ways of armed defense.
Permanently increases users agility and its uses in defensive combat.

See also: MINOR
~

#748
-2 crusader~ MAJOR~
MAJOR
  The Major group of skills is the second group a Crusader will choose from.
It contains skills which play a large role in deciding the particular area
the Crusader will excel in.  The group contains eight skills of which two
will be chosen at various ranks.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  2h mastery			NONE			NONE
  damage mastery B		NONE		armor enhancement
  damage mastery S		NONE		armor enhancement
  damage mastery P		NONE		armor enhancement
  armor enhancement	history of armaments	damage mastery B/P/S
  adv. armor		basic armor			NONE
  adv. handling		2h handling		orealts 2nd
  orealts 2nd		orealts 1st		adv. handling

For further help on each skill use "help" command.
See also: SELECT, MINOR, SPECIALTY, SIGNATURE
~

#749
-2 crusader~ '2H MASTERY'~
2H MASTERY
syntax: automatic

  The complete mastery and dedication to the arts of two handed weapon combat.
The user gains unheard of ability to use any two handed weapon, as long as 
both hands are one the weapon (a shield or held item will prevent the bonus).
This complete dedication comes at a price however, as the skill with normal
one handed weapons suffers slightly.
Grants bonus to use of all two handed weapons.
See also: MAJOR
~

#750
-2 crusader~ 'ADV. HANDLING' 'ADV HANDLING'~
ADV. HANDLING
syntax: automatic

  Advances theories of handling large two handed weapons, allow the skilled
user to not move faster and with more control of the heavy weapon.  As result
the chance to execute multiple attacks in combat increases greatly.
A Crusader skilled in advanced handling can maneuvers around his group mates,
cause more damage, and optionaly choose a direction in which to mpale when using 
that skill.

See also: MAJOR, IMPALE
~

#751
-2 crusader~ 'OREALTS 2nd' 'OREALTS SECOND'~
OREALTS SECOND
syntax: automatic

  After an official letter of petition an accomplished pupil of the Order of
Crusades may be allowed a glimpse at the Second Tome of Orealt.  This holy
relic was penned by the hand of the renowned and holy Orealt while he lent his
service to the Knights of the Crown.  Within are contained various teachings
of combat relying on quick cutting strikes used in moments of opportunity.
The tome has yet to fail in enlightening the student in ways of one on one 
combat.
Allowsa chance to execute backcutter when an opponent flees the battle.

See also: MAJOR
~

#752
-2 crusader~ CUTTER~
CUTTER
syntax:	cutter <target>

  Clad in heavy armors and wielding massive weapons, the members of Order of
Crusaders have always lacked reliable means of bringing an opponent to the
ground.  This technique accidently developed by a student learning to cusinart 
(at great peril to himself) allows the pupil to execute extremely vicious attack 
aimed at victim's legs.  The blow not only causes grievous damage, but also has the 
momentum and brutality required to send anyone to the ground.

See also: CUSINART
~

#753
-2 crusader~ 'DAMAGE MASTERY B' DAMAGE MASTERY S' DAMAGE MASTERY P'~
DAMAGE MASTERY B/S/P  (Bash/Slash/Pierce)
syntax: automatic

  A complete mastery of a single class of damage.  The pupil learns various
techniques and tricks to magnify the particular class of damage caused.
When using any weapon dealing the appropriate class of damage, the user will
enhance the effect of weapon, landing heavier, more deadly blows.
Allows for greater damage in particular damage category.

See also: MAJOR
~

#754
-2 crusader~ 'ADVANCED ARMOR' 'ADV. ARMOR' 'ADV ARMOR'~
ADVANCED ARMOR
syntax: automatic

  Further teachings of best uses of armor, that build and expand on the
groundwork laid by basic armor.  The Crusader not only learns how to position,
wear, and use the armor to best deflect various blows, but also how to
move and ride in heavy armor as to reduce the effects of its weight.
Slight increases over all armor, and reduces weight of worn armor.
Greatly increases the protection from torso, arms, legs, face and head armor.

See also: MAJOR, BASIC ARMOR
~

#755
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR ENHANCEMENT'~
ARMOR ENHANCEMENT
syntax: automatic

  Further teachings that depend on the groundwork laid by history of armaments.
The pupil learns advanced techniques of modular armor design and begins to
be introduced into the secrets surrounding treatment and use of Starstone.
Allows for expert level of armor modification.

See also: MODIFY, ARMORCRAFT, HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS
~

#756
-2 crusader~ SPECIALTY~
SPECIALTY
  The specialty group of skills fully dedicates the Crusader to a particular
path of life.  Only one skill may be chosen out of the total of six.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  control damage	damage mastery B/P/S	armorcraft
  blind fighting	orealts 2nd		cusinart
  cusinart		adv. handling		blind fighting
  psalm master		NONE			NONE
  witch compass		NONE			NONE
  weaponcraft		arms maintenance	NONE
  armorcraft		armor enhancement	NONE


For further help on each skill use "help" command.
See also: SELECT, MINOR, MAJOR, SIGNATURE
~

#757
-2 crusader~ 'CONTROL DAMAGE'~
CONTROL D DAMAGE
syntax: damage <slash/blunt/pierce/normal>

  Total mastery of handling a two handed weapon and the damage it causes.
Allows the user to specify the type of damage they prefer to cause in combat, 
instead of the damage type that the weapon causes.
Causes "batter" skill to ignore the damage penalty for non-blunt damage.
Impale may be executed with any weapon type
Behead may be executed with any weapon type

See also: SPECIALTY, BATTER
~

#758
-2 crusader~ CUSINART~
CUSINART
syntax: automatic
        cutter <target>

An advanced form of windmill, it requires extreme mental strength to control
one's rage as he swings deadly arcs all about.  A Crusader skilled in cusinart
is a master of such art, and is capable of engaging multiple opponents with
ease with greater speed, all while at the same time keeping close eye upon any 
allies nearby.

All disadvantages of windmill are removed, user automatically windmills in combat
when necessary, and allows the use of "cutter" command.

See also: SPECIALTY, WINDMILL, CUTTER
~

#759
-5 ~ 'WITCH COMPASS' WITCHCOMPASS~
WITCH COMPASS
syntax: witch <target>		: draws blood for further use
	witch			: use the witch compass

  A device developed by the witchhunter sect of the Order of Crusades, this 
strange devices forged by the Order's Master Armorers can be used to detect
presence of unnatural beings such as warlocks, witches, demons, and undead.
The device has been an object of many heated debates in the Order due to its
heretical requirement for user's blood, which is drawn on use.

See also: SPECIALTY
~

#760
-2 crusader~ 'PSALM MASTER'~
PSALM MASTER
syntax: automatic

  Many members of the Order of Crusade forgo the dedication to the violent 
arts of combat and focus on their spiritual side.  Thus dedicated to the
One God these holy men and women of the order have been known to be able
to memorize far more psalms then their less spiritually inclined brethren.
Allows for 50% increase in the maximum of psalms that may be memorized,
and negates the harmful effects of the Psalm of Baptism.

See Also: PSALMS, OBELISKS, CHANT
~

#761
-2 crusader~ 'WEAPON CRAFT' WEAPONCRAFT~
WEAPONCRAFT
syntax: automatic

  Those of the Order of Crusades skilled in this art are held in awe by 
both those in the Order and outside of it.  Skilled in all manners of 
creation, modification and improvement of weapons the Master Smiths of 
the Order of Crusades are capable of creating weapons of unparalleled 
quality and destructive ability.  Fully initiated into the secrets of
using starstone, their works have been known to perform feats that 
astonish even Savants.
Allows for Master level of weapon modifications

See also: SPECIALTY, MODIFY
~

#762
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR CRAFT' ARMORCRAFT~
ARMORCRAFT
syntax: automatic

  Those of the Order of Crusades skilled in this art are held in awe by 
both those in the Order and outside of it.  Skilled in all manners of 
creation, modification and improvement of armor the Master Armorers of 
the Order of Crusades are capable of creating armors that absorb the
heaviest of blows, and withstand the powers of hell itself.  An armor
marked by signature of such Master Armorer is rumored to be all but
unusable by anyone who is not their owner.

Allows for Master level of armor modifications

See also: SPECIALTY, MODIFY
~

#763
-2 crusader~ MODIFY~
MODIFY
syntax:	modify help <modification>	:show specific info on the modification
	modify <obj>			:show possible modifications on obj
	modify <obj> <modification>	:modify the object 
	modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using a part
	interrupt			:interrupts the process

  The Order of Crusades' focus on independence and self-reliance in face of
any odd and its stress on virtue of Modesty caused the Order to begin 
schooling their members in disciplines of armor and weapon craft soon after
the Order's Conception.  With the discovery of the scripts which led to the
Order's use of Starstone, the positions of Master Armorer and Smith have been
one of the most prestigious within the Order.

A Crusader may use "modify" command to attempt to modify weapon or armor and
increase their abilities.  For a list of possible modifications to an object
use "modify <object>" command.

Every modification has a minimum skill level of common, journeyman, expert 
or master, which unless met causes the modification to not be displayed.
Various skills such as "history of armaments" or "arms maintenance" increase
the level of skill in armorcraft or weaponcraft thus allowing more complex
modifications.  For specific information on particular modification use 
"modify help <name>".

For more information specific to ARMOR:  "HELP ARMOR MODIFY"
For more information specific to WEAPON: "HELP WEAPON MODIFY"

See also: ARMOR MODIFY, WEAPON MODIFY, HOLY WEAPON, STARSTONES, 
ARMORCRAFT, WEAPONCRAFT, INTERRUPT
~

#764
-2 crusader~ INTERRUPT~
INTERRUPT
syntax: interrupt

  When one is busy with a complex task such as armor craft or chanting,
you can interrupt it with this command and once again move about a normal.
Keep in mind, that any penalites for premature end of the task apply.

See also: CHANT, MODIFY
~

#765
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR MODIFY'~
MODIFY
syntax:	
  modify help <modification>		:show specific info on the modification
  modify <obj>				:show possible modifications on obj
  modify <obj> <modification>		:modify the object 
  modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using given part
*NOTE: use  ' ' around any object or modification that is of two or more words.

To see a list of modifications to given object, use "modify <object>"
Example: "modify iron plate"
The modifications marked by:
	 `#V``	: are allowed
	 `8V``	: have already been completed

To see detailed information on parts, or number of starstones required for the
modification use "modify help <modification>".
Example: "modify help hellplating"

To begin a modification on a given object use "modify <obj> <modification>"
Example: "modify 'iron plate' padding

A special case of modification is the "conversion" modification which
converts the armor as to allow further modification.  This also removes
the rare/unique status for the armor allowing the Crusader to wear it
without penalty.

Some modifications require parts (must be armor parts).  These parts might
have to be of rare quality, or from same set of armor as the one being 
modified.  Some powerful modifications require the armor AND the parts to
be rare as well as starstones.

See also: ARMORCRAFT, MODIFY
~

#766
-2 crusader~ 'WEAPON MODIFY'~
WEAPON MODIFY
syntax:	
  modify help <modification>		:show specific info on the modification
  modify <obj>				:show possible modifications on obj
  modify <obj> <modification>		:modify the object 
  modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using given part
*NOTE: use  ' ' around any object or modification that is of two or more words.

To see a list of modifications to given object, use "modify <object>"
Example: "modify iron sword"
The modifications marked by:
	 `#V``	: are allowed
	 `8V``	: have already been completed
	 `1X``	: the weapon has not been consecrated or is not of high enough
		  level

To see detailed information on parts, or number of starstones required for the
modification use "modify help <modification>".
Example: "modify help hellplating"
Many of the weapon modification require the weapon to be first consecrated
using "consecration" modification, and then further empowered to proper
level by carrying out "crusades" or "avenging" those whom have been killed.
read "HELP HOLY WEAPON" for more details.

To begin a modification on a given object use "modify <obj> <modification>"
Example: "modify 'iron sword' serrations

Some modifications require parts (must be weapon parts).  These parts might
have to be of rare quality, but unlike armor modifications, never require
parts from the same weapon.  You may also have to hold a certain number of
starstones to begin the process.

See also: WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY, HOLY WEAPON
~

#767
-2 crusader~ 'HOLY WEAPON'~
HOLY WEAPON
syntax: automatic with use of "modify <weapon> consecration"

  A Crusader must consecrate their weapon before any of the more powerful
modifications may be placed upon it.  The ritual of consecration places
powerful blessings upon the weapon, from then on turning it into a tool
of divine retribution.

When such weapon is used to strike down a player of race or guild whom 
the Crusader has called a Crusade against, or someone whom Crusader has 
killed when acting as an avenger.  The holy weapon will grow in its 
benevolence, further increasing in power and reflecting the Crusaders 
performance along the teachings of the Order of Crusades.

Most weapon modifications require the weapon to be of certain circle of power,
reflecting the strength of blessings on the Holy Weapon.  
NOTE however, that the increasing in the power of the Holy Weapon is
very much proportional to the rank of the victim put down with its edge.

See also: WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY, CRUSADE, AVENGER
~

#768
-2 crusader~ CRUSADE~
CRUSADE
syntax: crusade <race or class or cabal>

The hall mark of the Order of Crusades, this skill announces the beginning of
a Crusade against a particular faction.  A Crusader then leaves any of his
comrades behind, and rides forth against the faction he has chosen to war
against.
While on Crusade, the holy warrior receives substantial combat bonus against
the faction he has chosen to war against, and will move swiftly through
any terrain.  At the same time, the his morale will suffer against
any other foe, and hence will suffer small combat penalty when fighting them.
Note however that the combat bonus against the chose faction is far greater 
then the penalty, and that Crusade is the only way beyond use of Avenger to 
increase the level of Consecrated (Holy) weapon.

See also:  AVENGER, HOLY WEAPON
~

#769
-2 crusader~ AVENGER~
AVENGER
syntax:	avenge <corpse>

Following their virtues of Valour, and Honour, a Crusader may choose to 
avenge a fallen victim and bring divine retribution to the wrong doer.  
If the original murdered is within the lands, and not protected from
the Crusader, the holy warrior will leave his comrades and journey forth
with intent of slaying the murderer and bringing justice to the victim.

While avenging a victim, the Crusader will always sense the murderer's
location in the area and the room, even if they might not be able to see
them.  Furthermore when filled with the holy fervor of retribution the
Crusader will strike more powerful blows against the one he is pursuing
even if his moral will suffer if he fights targets other then the intended
murderer.

However, when the mission of revenge is final carried through, any benefits
received towards experience, cabal points or Holy Weapon are greatly increased.

See also: CRUSADE, HOLY WEAPON, MODIFY
~

#770
-2 crusader~ SIGNATURE~
SIGNATURE
The signature skills of Crusader are so rare and so distinct that many of the
great man of the Order of Crusades have been remembered by their signature 
skills rather then their names.  Only one skill may be chosen and the
title you shall receive when you reach the peak of the Order will signify 
your choice.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  fourth attack		adv. handling		behead, orealts 2nd
  behead		orealts 2nd		fourth attack, adv. handling
  pommel smash		2h mastery		NONE
  armor pierce		adv. armor		NONE
  pious			NONE			NONE
  high sight		damage mastery S/B/P	NONE



For further help on each skill use "help" command.
See also: SELECT, MINOR, MAJOR, SPECIALTY
~

#771
-2 crusader~ BEHEAD~
BEHEAD
syntax: behead

Using the principles set forth in the Second Tome of Orealt, the Crusader may
execute a swift cutting strike aimed at the spot between target's neckguard 
and the helm.  While the a successful beheading is practically unheard off, 
the brutal damage to an artery rich area will often result in spectacular
spouts of blood and satisfaction on part of the Crusader.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#772
-2 crusader~ 'POMMEL SMASH'~
POMMEL SMASH
syntax: pommel		
	pommel <anything>	: force standard pommel smash

  Using their mastery of two handed weapons, a Crusader may quickly sidestep
and plant a perfectly aimed blow to the head with the massive pommel found on
almost every two handed weapon.  The blow when struck with a blunt pommel
will often daze and confuse the victim causing him to lose track of directions.
When done with a spiked or barbed pommel which are common amongst the Order's
requests for modifications, the vicious blow is aimed through the visor of
the enemy.  The effect of such vicious blow is left to one's imagination.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#773
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR PIERCE'~
ARMOR PIERCE
syntax: armorpierce	: (automatic for next round of combat)

  He who giveth taketh away.  Those Crusaders skilled in the best uses of
armor through advanced armor skill, know exact spots and weaknesses of the
protective suits.  Using this knowledge they automatically attempt to bypass
the opponent's armor causing their blows to totally ignore the beneficial effects of armor on success.  Furthermore, each blow that the Crusader lands 
has a chance of damaging the victim's armor reducing its benefit.  Only a 
single such blow may be placed per use of the skill, as opposed to the automatic
effect of bypassing armor which is always attempted as long as the skill is
active.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#774
-2 crusader~ PIOUS~
PIOUS
syntax:	automatic

  There are those in the Order of Crusades so devoted to the One God and the
teachings of Modesty, that their soul reaches spiritual heights never touched
by others.  These near-Saints of the Order are known to have wondrous ability
to chant multiple psalms at the same time, granting them powers that awe even
the most stalwart of foes.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#775
-2 crusader~ 'HIGH SIGHT'~
HIGH SIGHT
syntax:	automatic

  After years of practice and many battles, those Crusaders skilled with any
type of damage mastery, are said to develop a strange ability to exactly
pinpoint the spot upon ones body where a malady or disease lurks.  In addition
rumors are abound that these men and women see visions and lands never glimpsed
by ordinary men.  Using this strange sixth sense against evils and enemies of
the Order, these Crusaders are able to totally bypass any resistances of their
victims to damage.  Furthermore, if faced against an enemy possessing a 
vulnerability which the Crusader's weapon cannot take advantage off, they
will strike blows in the most vulnerable spots in victims flesh causing 
extra damage regardless.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#776
-2 crusader~ IMPALE~
IMPALE
syntax:	impale <target>
syntax:	impale <direction> <target> //optional with Adv. Handling

  Using a two handed spear, sword or a polearm, a Crusader may rush a target
and skewer them on their weapon.  Using their impetus further, the Crusader
attempts to carry the victim out of the immediate area to continue combat
else where.  While those not skilled in advanced techniques of handling weapon
cannot hope to choose a direction of their charge, some Crusaders are known
to toss their enemies about like a bale of hey.

See also: ADV. HANDLING
~

#777
-2 crusader~ 'DESTROY UNDEAD'~
DESTROY UNDEAD
syntax:	destroy

  Using the holy teachings of the One God, combined with the knowledge of
the Order of Crusades stored in ancient relics.  A Crusader may mix special
powders and liquids that when released into the air have a most deadly 
effect on any undead beings in vicinity.  There are even stories of Crusaders
turning undead to ashes using such deadly concoctions.
~

#778
-2 crusader~ WINDMILL~
WINDMILL
syntax:	windmill		:turns windmill on/off
	windmill <anything>	:special out of combat use with a psalm of Righteousness

 The name of this particular form of combat comes from the sound a large two
handed weapon makes when the user swings it about in continuous, sweeping arcs.
Carrying deadly momentum the weapon makes a sound comparable to the swoosh
created by a windmill's blades.  When used in close combat however, few 
have time to react to the deadly sound  before the wide arcs reach them 
regardless where they stand.
Turns the windmill effect on and off.
~

#779
-2 crusader~ DEFLECT~
DEFLECT
syntax:	deflect <primary/secondary>

  Using the sheer momentum and impetus of their huge weapons, Crusaders are
able to strike extremely powerful blows against their enemies weapons.  When
executed properly, this maneuver deflects the weapon with such force that it
takes a round of combat for the victim to regain control and be able to attack
anew.  Since one normally has less control over an offhand weapon, those
weapons are much easier to deflect.

See also: DOUBLE GRIP
~

#780
-2 crusader~ BATTER~
BATTER
syntax: batter

  A hallmark skill of the Order of Crusades it allows a user of heavy two
handed weapons to strike blows not aimed to damage the victim, but rather to
stun and daze them.  The Crusader uses their weapons to cause blunt damage
to the target, thus staggering them backwards while they soak up the brutal
kinetic forces of his blows.  When a person becomes sufficiently stunned
they may lose grip on their weapons and shields while they recover.

The effect of battering is cumulative and lasts at least an hour or more from
the last battering received.  Unless the weapon is blunt in nature, or the
damage is controlled to be blunt, the damage caused while the Crusader 
concentrates on battering blows is reduced.

See also: CONTROL DAMAGE
~

#781
99 'Abscess Root'~
Synonyms: American Greek Valerian, Blue Bells, False Jacob's Ladder, Sweatroot

Description: This plant grows in woods, damp grounds, and along shady
river-banks. It has creeping roots, by which it multiplies very quickly. The
stems are 9 to 1O inches high, much branched, bearing pinnate leaves with six
or seven pairs of leaflets. The nodding, blue flowers are in loose, terminal
bunches. The slender rootstock, when dried and used as the drug, is 1 to 2
inches long and 1/8 inch in diameter, with the bases of numerous stems on the
upper surface, and tufts of pale, slender, smooth, wiry, brittle roots on the
underside. The rootstock has a slightly bitter and acrid taste. 

Medicinal Action and Uses: Astringent, alterative, diaphoretic, expectorant.
The drug has been recommended for use in febrile and inflammatory eases, all
scrofulous diseases, in bowel complaints requiring an astringent, for the
bites of venomous snakes and insects, for bronchitis and laryngitis and
whenever an alterative is required. It is reported to have cured consumption;
an infusion of the root in wineglassful doses is useful in coughs, colds and
all lung complaints, producing copious perspiration. The tincture of the root
is made of whisky. 

Eat: nothing
Herb: cure poison
Brew: cure poison
~

#782
-1 VENTRILOQUATE~
VENTRILOQUATE
Syntax: ventriloquate <name> <message>

This spell throws the caster's voice, making it appear that some other 
object or person in the room is saying the caster's message.  Victims who 
sees through the spell will know that someone is using ventriloquism, but 
not who. Victims who did not see through the spell will think that the object
or person really did say the caster's message.~

#783
-1 'CREATE TORCH'~
CREATE TORCH
Syntax: Create_Torch

Those with the skill of create torch have the ability to gather what 
materials rummage around and find and then use them to create a small 
torch.  The torch gives off a brilliant light that will allow the user to 
see in the dark.
~

#784
-1 PANHANDLE~
PANHANDLE
Syntax: Panhandle <target>
When bards are in a monetary bind they can use their charm and notable
reputations to panhandle enough money to get them back on their feet.  
If done correctly the target will be compelled to dip into their pocket and 
share some of their wealth with the needy bard.
~

#785
-1 KNOCKOUT~
KNOCKOUT
Syntax: Knockout

From years and years of drunken bar brawls, bards have learned many 
secrets of fighting.  One such secret if to end the fight before it 
starts.  With a hit on the right spot, bards have the ability to render 
their victim unconscious.  The victim of this punch must be in perfect 
health, and have not already dodged it. 
Due to the accuracy it takes to make this hit successful it will often 
fail.  
~

#786
-1 DUET~
DUET
Syntax: duet <target>

When bards are in the companionship of other bards, they can pick each 
other as their partners to sing duets.  Both bards have to select the other 
as their duet partner to sing in a duet.  Keep in mind that the bards sing 
on their own skill level, meaning if one person loses their concentration, 
or disturbed by other means, the duet will not take place, and only the 
first person attempting to sing the song will sing it.  The same goes for the
songs that are not able to be sang in a duet.  There are two type of 
duets, one in which both bards will have the effect of the song, at a lower 
mana cost, or one total effect which the bards will share the lower mana 
cost.
There are some other benefits in duet that the bard will need to figure 
out on their own.
~

#787
-1 REFRAIN~
REFRAIN
Syntax: Refrain <song>

Before a battle, a bard might wish to practice his songs before putting 
them to use.  One way to do so is to refrain the song into their minds before
attacking.  This will allow the bard to remember the song so he can 
sing it in battle without having to actively call upon it.  Some songs are 
far too complex to be refrained, or have no purpose to be refrained.
~

#788
-1 UPPERCUT~
UPPERCUT
Syntax: Uppercut

Another skill taken straight from the bars, a Bard has the ability to 
throw such a stunning uppercut that it can knock the jaw of the victim loose.  
While the jaw is loose, no words can be spoken, nor can spells be chanted.
~

#789
-1 BRAWL~
BRAWL
Syntax: automatic

Having been involved in many fights in cities, bards have adapted to 
such environments.  Using the the props, and traffic of cities they
thus gain a fighting advantage and may strike more often then normal.
~

#790
-1 TAROT 'TAROT CARD' 'TAROT CARDS'~
TAROT CARD
Syntax: Tarot <target>

One of the most mysterious skills possessed by the Bard.  A bard has 
the ability to analyze the ancient Tarot cards so proficiently that they 
actually affect whomever they are read for.  Be forewarned, the Tarot contain 
both fortunate and misfortunate cards, so it is taken upon your own risk.
Bards can only read the fortune of those that are willing, thus they 
must be following the bard for the bard to perform this act.
~

#791
-1 TUNE~
TUNE
Syntax: tune <instrument>

Bards can tune their instrument to be more harmonic thus benefitting
the bard when wielding them.  Various effects are added to the 
instrument after they are tuned.  An instrument can be tuned multiple times, 
but becomes more likely to be ruined with each successive tune.
~

#792
-1 ANALYZE~
ANALYZE
Syntax: Analyze <target>

Learning to fight in the bars has taught Bards is to quickly note the
vulnerabilities of their opponents.  When a bard analyzes an opponent 
he can many interesting facts about them, and what their bodies can handle, 
and what can hurt them most.  
~

#793
-1 LURE~
LURE
Syntax: Lure <target>

In the taverns Bards can often find themselves fighting off a large 
group of people.  They have adopted this ancient technique to help even the 
fight.  A bard can use their looks, reputation, and words to lure their target 
into following them.  Note that at no time will the target be under the 
bard's control, but instead compelled to follow him elsewhere so they might 
fight in privacy.
~

#794
-1 'A SOOTHING MELODY'~
A SOOTHING MELODY
Syntax: sing 'A soothing melody'

Bards have the ability to sing a melody so soothing to the ear, that it
makes those that are traveling within your group forget the aches of 
their minor wounds.  Only those grouped with the Bard will be affected by the
soothing melody.
~

#795
-1 'SERENADE'~
SERENADE
Syntax: sing 'Serenade'

When someone catches the fancy of a bard's eye they may choose to 
serenade them.  Serenading is an ancient bard trait that has no known affects
except to show their admiration of a particular person.
~

#796
-1 'REST THY FEET'~
REST THY FEET
Syntax: sing 'Rest thy feet'

After a long, tedious journey Bards have the ability to sing a song 
that will relieve and relax the worn legs of those traveling in his group.  
Only those grouped with the Bard can benefit from the song's melody.
~

#797
-1 'WATER TO WINE'~
WATER TO WINE
Syntax: sing 'water to wine' <container>

This song originally composed by the elves, are now commonly sang for 
all bards.  It magically alters the content in the container from water to 
wine, as the name of the song implies.  The liquid in the container must be 
water, for the conversion to take place.
~

#798
-1 'GOOD TIDINGS'~
GOOD TIDINGS
Syntax: sing 'Good tidings'

When a bard feels down they often sing the song of good tidings.  The
melody uplifts the spirit and makes one believe they are luckier than
normal.  Those that are fortunate enough to travel in the company of 
the bard share the song's affects.
~

#799
-1 'LEVIATHANS PASSING'~
LEVIATHANS PASSING
Syntax: sing 'Leviathans passing'

When a bard's voice becomes parched he can call upon the mighty 
Leviathan to come to his aid.  This song summons up the Leviathan to cross the
bard's path, leaving a spring for the bard to partake.
~

#800
-1 'SHIELD OF WORDS'~
SHIELD OF WORDS
Syntax: sing 'Shield of words'

As a bard grows in experience his voice becomes more than just a way to
communicate.  His words can encompass him in a mighty shield, 
increasing their defense from attacks of others.
~

#801
-1 'SHARP DISCORD'~
SHARP DISCORD
Syntax: sing 'Sharp discord'

Bards can altar the pitch of their voice in such an unpleasing manner 
that it causes pain to all in the room that hears it.  Those that are in a
group with the bard shall be unaffected by the discord.
~

#802
-1 'LEGEND OF HERCULES'~
LEGEND OF HERCULES
Syntax: sing 'Legend of Hercules'

Bards often sing about the great journeys of heroes past.  As a bard 
sings about the mighty Hercules the lyrics are so strong that it persuades 
the mind to believe the bard, and those that group with him, are as strong 
as the legendary hero.
~

#803
-1 'BATTLE HYMN'~
BATTLE HYMN
Syntax: sing 'Battle hymn'

Before preparing to go into battle a bard is often called upon to sing
this upbeat song known to fill warriors with pride and adrenaline, 
making them more efficient in battle.  Those that are in the bard's group will 
be affected by this song.
~

#804
-1 LULLABY~
LULLABY
Syntax: sing 'Lullaby'

After a long day, or a fierce battle, a bard can sing a song so 
soothing that it will put his group members into a deep slumber.  While in 
slumber they will share the benefits of an undisturbed sleep, and heal at a 
faster rate.  Those affected by the lullaby won't be able to wake themselves
until the song wears off.
~

#805
-1 'HERALD OF THE SKY'~
HERALD OF THE SKY
Syntax: sing 'Herald of the sky'

In reprisal to their lullaby, a bard can sing a song so powerful it 
will travel into the subconscious of their group mates, and will instantly
awake them, no matter what has put them to sleep.
~

#806
-1 'VICTORY BE OURS'~
VICTORY BE OURS
Syntax: sing 'Victory be ours'

Celebrating a grand victory, a bard may raise his voice to the heavens 
in majestic celebration.  The song has little affect on the bard, but is
instead a way to show thanks for his feat.
~

#807
-1 'WEIGHT OF BURDEN'~
WEIGHT OF BURDEN
Syntax: sing 'Weight of burden' 

Upon hearing this song, the victim will feel weighed down with endless
tasks and guilt.  The weight of this is so heavy, it can be felt 
phyically as well, adding to the load already carried by the victim.
~

#808
-1 'MOURN FOR THE LOST'~
MOURN FOR THE LOST
Syntax: sing 'Mourn for the lost' <corpse>

With the death of a friend comes a time of great sorrow for a bard.  He
can take this opportunity to mourn over the corpse of the fallen one.  
When this song is sung everyone in the room which was a companion of 
the fallen one will mourn in suffering.  With this mourning comes a sense 
of closure with the deceased, which gives extra life and protects them 
against future attacks.
~

#809
-1 'KINGS FEAST' FEAST~
A KINGS FEAST
Syntax: sing 'A kings feast'

This song will mystically enhance any food in the bard's inventory.  
The food will increase in nurishment and duration.  This song works better
on lower quality foods, and will have little or no effect on higher
quality meals.
~

#810
-1 'LET IT BE KNOWN'~
LET IT BE KNOWN
Syntax: sing 'Let it be known'

When a bard sings this song the words echo throughout the lands, 
increasing the reputation of the bard.  The name of the bard is so well known, 
there isn't a shopper in the realms that has not heard of the bards travels 
and expeditions.  The increased reputation will increase the effectiveness 
of the bard's haggle on the shopkeeper.
~

#811
-1 'ODE TO GOD'~
ODE TO GOD
Syntax: sing 'Ode to God'

With this song, the bard sings his or her appreciation for the 
respective patron God.
~

#812
-1 'CLASH OF TITANS'~
CLASH OF TITANS
Syntax: sing 'Clash of Titans'

When a bard sings this mighty song the verse echoes deep into the 
ground calling forth the mighty Titans.  With one swift stroke of the land the
Titans cause an earthquake hitting all in the room that are not grouped
with the bard. 
~

#813
-1 'TWILIGHT OF FAERIES'~
TWILIGHT OF FAERIES
Syntax: sing 'Twilight of faeries'

A bard can sing a song so playful and curious that it can draw the 
faeries out of hiding.  As they circle over the bard's head and dance, the dust
they spread covers the bard and his group mates, curing serious wounds
accumulated during travel.
~

#814
-1 'WEAK OF MIND AND BODY'~
WEAK OF MIND AND BODY
Syntax: sing 'Weak of mind and body'

As a bard's song can uplift the spirit, it can also weaken it.  While 
this song is sung all those that hear it will be burdened by the weight of 
the words.  They will be in this weakened state until they can get the 
words out of their head.
~

#815
-1 'HEALING OF LAUGHTER'~
HEALING OF LAUGHTER
Syntax: sing 'Healing of laughter'

A known remedy throughout the times, laughter is sometimes the very
effective in recovering from ailments that the person suffurs.  The
song brings a laughter to the person's face, raising their moral and
hopes.  Sometimes it is so effective it has been known to cure certain
diseases.
~

#816
-1 'MYSTERY OF THE UNICORN'~
MYSTERY OF THE UNICORN
Syntax: sing 'Mystery of the unicorn'

As mysterious as the unicorn itself, this song's affects change with 
each breath that sings it.  As a bard raises his voice he summons the 
magical protection of the unicorn.  What type of protection is solely up to the
unicorn.
~

#817
-1 'FLIGHT OF THE CONDOR'~
FLIGHT OF THE CONDOR
Syntax: sing 'Flight of the Condor'

When bards have the need for transportation that they cannot provide
themselves they often rely on the mighty condor.  This song summons the
condor to the aid of the bard, and circling over their heads, the 
condor is willing to carry the bard in the air or over the water.
~

#818
-1 'LUST SEDUCTION DESIRE'~
LUST DESIRE SEDUCTION
Syntax: sing 'Lust desire seduction'

This song will increase the sexual need of the victim, and will cause
the victim under the affect of the song, to do compulsive things when
the opposite sex is present.
~

#819
-1 'BROKEN SPIRIT'~
BROKEN SPIRIT
Syntax: sing 'Broken spirit'

This song reflects the brutal violence of battles past.  All that hear 
the song are affected so deeply that it breaks their spirit, making them 
give up fighting or deters them from even starting.
~

#820
-1 'MARRIAGE SONG'~
MARRIAGE SONG
Syntax: sing 'Marriage song'

This is a song of great joy for the bard.  This song is used in wedding
ceremonies to make the couple official.  A bard takes great pride in
performing what has been called the greatest love song ever written.  
~

#821
-1 'REST IN PEACE'~
REST IN PEACE
Syntax: sing 'Rest in peace'

This song is one of the darker songs written by the bards of old.  It 
has been known to entice the undead creatures of the realms, and gently 
lure them to sleep.
~

#822
-1 'INTOXIFY MY MIND'~
INTOXIFY MY MIND
Syntax: sing 'Intoxify my mind'

After a long day's work Bards often like to sing a melody, filled with
such verses and rhymes, that will bewilder a person's mind so that they
feel themselves lightheaded and almost drunken.
~

#823
-1 'SCOURGE OF BLACK WIDOW' 'BLACK WIDOW'~
SCOURGE OF BLACK WIDOW
Syntax: sing 'Scourge of black widow'

While in battle bards can sing this song to lure several Black Widow
spiders to come to their aid.  The spiders will not fight for the bard,
but their bites can be poisonous to the victim.
~

#824
-1 'DEVILS DANCE'~
DEVILS DANCE
Syntax: sing 'Devils dance'

A song said to be written to amuse the devil himself.  It causes 
whoever hears it to begin dancing uncontrollably.  Whoever is subjected to this
dance shall experience fatigue in their legs and sometimes even lose
concentration from others things because of the dancing.
~

#825
-1 REMEMBRANCE~
REMEMBRANCE
Syntax: sing 'Remembrance'

Should someone fall into a state of forgetfulness a bard can stimulate 
the brain with this song.  The lyrics find the closed off information and
force it free, causing the person to remember.
~

#826
-1 'VERTIGO'~
VERTIGO
Syntax: sing 'vertigo'

A well-traveled bard has the knowledge to sing a song so lyrically
dumbfounding that those hearing the song become disoriented toward 
their own task at hand.  There have been instances where one can't accurately 
target who they want to attack or the direction they travel.
~

#827
-1 UNFORGIVEN~
UNFORGIVEN
Syntax: sing 'Unforgiven'

Throughout their travels a bard comes across many things, some are
pleasant and others are not.  This verse was written to combat those 
with curses that run in the lands.  Upon singing this song all that is 
plagued with an unholy curse, whether flesh or wares, shall not be freed.
~

#828
-1 'FOUR SEASONS'~
FOUR SEASONS
Syntax: sing 'Four seasons'

When a bard raises their voice in singing the song of the four seasons,
the elements associated with each of the four seasons are brought forth 
to aid the bard in battle.  Since there is no way to control the elements
attack focus, no one in the same room as the bard is safe from the 
attack.
~

#829
-1 'PARANOIA'~
PARANOIA
Syntax: sing 'Paranoia'

This bard's song is a cautious melody of a great tragedy that happened 
in the past.  Whoever hears this will begin to panic, feeling very 
paranoid of the people that crowd him.  This paranoia will cause them to 
go into a state of hysteria.
~

#830
-1 'EMANCIPATION'~
EMANCIPATION
Syntax: sing 'Emancipation'

An experienced bard is taught a song that inspires those who do not 
have freewill to break free from all who enslave them.  Be warned, once this
song leaves the bard's lips, all creatures enslaved in the room shall 
also be allowed the freewill to break free.
~

#831
-1 'TRAVEL OF SOLITARY'~
TRAVEL OF SOLITARY
Syntax: sing 'travel of solitary'

All players in the room not in the group of the bard, will have a 
tendency to feel the need of traveling alone.  While affected, the victim 
cannot group or follow anyone else, nor can anyone one else follow the victim.
~

#832
-1 'BIRTH OF THE PHOENIX'~
BIRTH OF THE PHOENIX
Syntax: sing 'Birth of the Phoenix'

This song shall summon the egg of a phoenix where it will hatch and 
called into the bard's possession.  The bard must maintain the needs of this
fragile life in order for it to grow.  If the bard takes proper care of
the phoenix, it will grow and prosper, forevermore at the service of 
the bard.  If proper care is not given, the phoenix shall surely die.
The phoenix will morph twice, before which you have to constantly feed
it when it begins squawking at you.  Once adult, it does not require
the food for the energy it requires to morph.

Once the phoenix is in the adult form, you can order it to ignite:
'order phoenix ignite', at which point the phoenix will burst into
a flame of energy, and combining its life force with yours, and
return under the ground once again waiting for rebirth.
~

#833
-1 Avariel~
Balance. Even the word intones completes harmony. Just as a Scale must
be equal, so must the lands of Aabahran. Darkness is balanced by Light, and
Order by Disorder. There, in the middle of it all, stands the True Path of
Neutrality. Four sides to a cube, and a Left to a Right. 
 
 Avariel, Spectrum of Balance, guards the delicate Scale that is Aabahran and
guides those who would strive to walk the Path of Neutrality. She stands
as it's Angelic Protector and Mother, to watch over the Scale and her 
children of the True Path.
 
Hailing from another plane, this mysterious angel walked in the Balance,
as she guided and taught those who sought to follow her. As time went by,
Avariel began to hear the cries of her children in Aabahran. Transcending time
and space, she emerged  high above in the Heavens of Aabahran. It is from here,
those her constant gaze remains fixed on her children and the Scale.
~

#834
-4 cabal~ PATHFINDING~
PATHFINDING (Min 250 cps.)
Syntax: Automatic
 
After many years of existence in the wilds of Aabahran the Barbarians
have grown adept at choosing the most effective path to navigate the
harsh environments of the land.  Whether in forest, badlands or in the
cliffs, this skill in pathfinding allows Warmasters to travel with 
practically no additional effort through any terrain.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER
~

#835
-1 Bryntryst~
No one can say with any degree of honesty that they know of The Ettin's
origins, nor can any say exactly how long it has been it has dwelled among
the heavens watching down upon Aabahran.  But what can be said about the Lord
of Chaos is an unrelenting dedication to nothing and an unwavering
allegiance to all.  Appearing in many forms ranging from a sickening cloud
of foul air to its preferred form, an immense two-headed giant, an audience
with it can lead to either doom or salvation, depending on little more than
the time of day.  It's fancy changes by the moment, a wrathful, angry beast
one moment, and a jovial spirit the next, to decipher it is a task without
possibility of success.
  
With the sudden departure of the Lord of Discord, Bryntryst found that it alone 
possessed the knowledge of Chaos and of the Nexus to bridge the gap between the 
planes and give birth to the children of Discord, Demons.  It was with the 
creation of its infernal army, that it began to entrench its fingers into the 
world of men, influencing them from afar to further its own goals.
  
It was only shortly before the Third Age of Aabarahn that the Angel of the
Balance, Avariel was seduced and misled by Nefar and  recieved the Black
Looking Glass as a gift.  Using this Looking Glass, Avariel was decieved
into believing the mortal world had forgotten her and her charge.  It was
then that she began her descent into Chaos.  When Avariel struck down her
mortal voice, Keene, Bryntryst came unto her, and surrendered the throne
of Chaos, taking the Balance as his own to protect mortals and Immortals
alike.
  
Upon accepting its powers, The Ettin was transformed by its power, and
each of it's two heads became a seperate, sentient being of opposing morals
and abilities.  Though they speak and act seperately, they think in tandem,
with a single consciousness between them both.  There have been many who
have sought to define the twin beings, and understand how one mind can exist
in such a dichotomy, but to no avail.  Its is a dual nature, each of it's
personas possessing a personality of its own.  Crude and crass, compassionate
and kind,  but this is but the beginning of it's demeanor.  It claims
servitude to none but the Balance and those who understand it's importance.
~

#836
-1 academy~
The Academy was set up to cater for students between 5th and 25th ranks. 
It is intended as an extension to mud school and the newbie channel. 
Academy teachers will answer your questions and from time to time will 
arrange lessons to take place within the academy walls.
The academy can be found by going to Central Commons in Rheydin, then 
3 south, 2 west, south.
 
The Basics :-
 
The academy is a clan and as such is subject to the same syntaxes used 
for clans. The main commands are :
 
who clan - this will tell you which other members of the academy are 
present in the lands. All students have an [I] before their name and 
teachers, immortals will have either [T], [E], or [L]
 
cc <speech> - this allows you to communicate on the clan chat with all 
other members. Remember anything said here will be heard by students, 
teachers, and immortals alike.
 
Rules of the Clan Chat :-
 
The clan chat is intended to be used liberally. Unlike the newbie chat 
all speech must be kept IC (In Character). This chat is used to request
answers and lessons for students, and to arrange lessons and times for 
teachers.
You are expected to be courteous to teachers at all times regardless of 
any racial/alignment differences and not to interrupt while they are 
speaking. Any spamming or abuse on the Academy chat will result in you 
being removed from the academy and punished.
The clan chat must NOT be used for arranging groups, general chit-chat, 
locating potential victims, or divulging quest information.
 
Academy Rules :-
 
1) Students will only be in the academy if they are taking their first 
look round or are participating in a lesson
2) Students must not be found sleeping, lurking, hiding, or fleeing into 
the Academy.
3) There will be NO fighting in the academy
4) Teachers are to be treated with respect ALWAYS
5) Do not interrupt teachers while they are teaching unless instructed to
6) Do not use pointless emotes during lessons
7) Pupils must not use emotes on teachers - eg slap, hug, kiss, tickle
8) All students are expected to be completely visible when in the academy.
 
Anybody found breaking these rules will have their hallpass revoked and/or 
will be punished.
 
~

#837
-1 vote~
VOTE
Syntax: vote
        vote list
        vote create <vote>
 
GENERAL INFO.
  Forsaken Lands posses a sophisticated voting system to allow members of various
factions, cities or cabal to make decisions affecting them.  If you enter the 
lands while a vote exists that awaits your decision you will be automaticly placed
in a voting booth where you can make your decision.  You can skip this process
a limited number of times using the "quit" command, but eventualy you will have
to vote to proceed.
 
Alternatively you can enter the vote booth at any time in the game by typing "vote",
at which point you will enter the vote booth and proceed along the same lines.
 
SPECIAL POSITIONS
  Votes of Elders and Leaders of organization to which the vote pertrains have
extra "weight" and will count more then usual share.  Futhermore Leaders have
the power of veto for any vote concerning their organization.
See also: CABAL VOTES, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#838
-1 'Religion Chance'~
The concept of random occurrence swings forever a heavy pendulum in the
mind of those who follow the path of Chance.  Random forces deciphering your
next adventure, the next being you meet, the next victory you lose or
tragedy you face.  Random forces push you the four winds, towards your
dream, the main goal you wish to attain in life:

SEE ALSO: DISCORD, GREED, GUILE 
~

#839
-1 Discord~
DISCORD

You are violent and destructive, a menace to society, and hated by the
masses.  Your parents never disciplined you as a child, and you've grown up
to be an irresponsible, violent plague.  You don't like laws or authority in
general, and you'd rather beat up an innocent child than give money to the
poor.  

The followers of discord are shunned by most of society, and range from
petty vandals looking for a cheap thrill to cruel beasts in search of world
destruction.  They generally resort to violence as a prime solution to all
problems, and tend to reject unity and balance.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, GREED, GUILE 
~

#840
-1 Greed~
GREED

Gold, jewels, power, beauty - these words leave a sweet taste of lust in the
mouth of the being who desires much.  His greed drives him through life,
seeking appeasement and satisfaction, a slight sate for the want that so
hungrily consumes him.  A life led by selfish goals and pushed in a
direction that will better the wealth and prestige of the being that chooses
to enter the gilded cage of Greed.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, DISCORD, GUILE 
~

#841
-1 Guile~
GUILE

Liars, cheaters, and stealers of Aabahran unite and rejoice, for there is
finally a path in which you can follow in life.  Your tricks and pranks
finally make way for purpose and reason and you are finally accepted for
what you do in life.  So gamble and drink, lie and steal, murder and purge! 
For on this path, no one judges you, but Chance.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, DISCORD, GREED 
~

#842
-1 'Religion Life'~
LIFE

Goodness and Light.  These are the things that the followers of the Path of
Light idealize.  The eradication of evil is a war that has been fought on
thousands of battlefields for thousands of years, and will no doubt be
fought until the end of time.  One who walks this path is dedicated to the
cause of good, and works whole-heartedly against evil in their own way. 
While some take up a blade and strike down the minions of darkness, others
heal the wounded and weary.  Others still travel the lands preaching the
ways of peace, denouncing violence as the root of all of the suffering in
the world.  Regardless of their means, they strive to create a world of
purity, a land devoid of wickedness and wrongdoing.  

SEE ALSO: COMPASSION, PURITY, TRANQUILITY 
~

#843
-1 compassion~
COMPASSION

You have spent your entire life witnessing first hand the follies of war. 
The price of conflict.  Bloodied bodies, people on the verge of death from
horrid ailments, the crazed lunatics whose minds have been poisoned.  You
have seen all of this, and have sworn to put an end to it.  A divine healer,
or just a soul bent on mercy, you live your life to save others'.  Yours is
a gift best given to others, and better still given freely.  

Every war has its casualties, and the campaign against evil is no exception.
And each day, many succumb to the plagues and diseases spread by those who
walk the path of death.  Regardless of their outlook on war, those who walk
this path all have one thing in common: A love for life, and the desire to
preserve it.  Whether they convert divine energy into blessings of healing
and life, or are merely a friendly ear to speak to, these souls remain true
to life, and do their own part to reclaim Aabahran for the cause of Good.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, PURITY, TRANQUILITY 
~

#844
-1 Purity~
PURITY

Evil surrounds you.  It is everywhere you look.  The darkness has cast a
grim shadow over everything you hold dear.  The time has come that something
is done about it.  Others waste time and energy in talk, or ignoring it
altogether.  That's why you are different.  Take up arms, and the wicked
shall fall in piles at your feet.  Let them embrace the death they embody,
and save Aabahran in the process.  

The Way of Purity sees evil as a cancer and use arms to remove it,
permanently.  They have sworn their sword arm as the hope of life.  No
longer standing idle as their world crumbles around them, they have sounded
the trumpet of war, and raised the standard, charging headlong into the
fray.  Theirs is a path of war, constant vigilance, for if one ceases to
swing the sword for but a moment, he allows the darkness to advance.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, COMPASSION, TRANQUILITY 
~

#845
-1 Tranquility~
TRANQUILITY

You have never hefted a weapon against another before and you aren't about
to start now.  There are many reasons why people like you exist.  Either
your respect for life is to great to bring an end to another's, or merely
the notion that violence accomplishes nothing, except reducing yourself to
the level of the enemy.  Differences can be resolved through talk, or other
means, but violence begets violence, and fighting with swords and magic only
produces more.  

There are many means to achieve a goal.  One need not force it with the
point of a dagger, or the head of a mace.  Those who do so are foolish, and
see only an easy means to an end.  But life is not always the flattest road;
there are infinite hills and turns that one must negotiate to reach the end
of it.  There is work ahead for he who wishes to eliminate evil, whether
those who walk this path attempt to quell the ways of the wicked with words,
or simply perform so many acts of generosity that evil has no room to exist.


SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, COMPASSION, PURITY 
~

#846
-1 'Religion Equilibrium'~
EQUILIBRIUM

There are many things in life that are quite clearly defined.  Good and
Evil.  Order and Chaos.  But regardless of what you look at, there is always
a fuzzy area that lay between the two opposites.  Whether balance represents
making sure that the balance between good and evil does not stray too far to
either side, or merely not caring about either, those who follow this path,
have chosen to walk their own road.  But, as is everything else, even the
Path of Equilibrium is divided into different factions, each claiming what
true neutrality is.  But as much as they may argue, each of them has lived a
life devoid of clear-cut boundaries.  

SEE ALSO: ORDER, NEUTRALITY, CHAOS 
~

#847
-1 order~
ORDER

Without law, you are nothing more than the animals.  Slave to Disorder.  Law
and Order are the only thing that raises us above them, good and evil does
not matter; all are the same before it.  Ruling with an iron fist or
creating a civilization that favors neither good nor evil, the law is a tool
to control, to protect, and to gain.  Use it at your whim, but do not
falter.  

The world is ripe with disorder.  Order is the shield that protects the
world's population from destruction.  Before it's blind eye, all are equal. 
The immoral murderer and the pious preacher; all will benefit, and heed,
it's guidelines.  It favors nothing, but elevates itself above all.  It
looks down on none, but is superior to everything else.  It is the only
thing that matters.  But, just as laws are tools, so shall people use them
to their advantage.  Many who live the Way of Order know what they may or
may not be able to get away with, and often corrupt the law to further their
own goals, be it for good or evil.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, NEUTRALITY, CHAOS 
~

#848
-1 Neutrality~
NEUTRALITY

Law, Order.  Good, Evil.  Extremes that when left unsupervised, wield
terrible power.  When the balance swings too far to one side, it is your job
to correct it and weigh them a bit more in favor of the underdog, for when
one side tips the scales beyond aid, it will end all that is known.  You are
a servant of the scales, aiding those who are outnumbered.  Or perhaps you
just serve one thing, yourself.  Regardless of your views, you favor neither
law nor chaos, light nor darkness.  But one thing is consistent, while you
walk the lands, the balance shall be maintained, and if need be, defended. 


While there are many who serve established moral factions, those who walk
the Way of Neutrality, serve everything that lay between them all.  They
live in a gray world, ignoring the boundaries of white and black, casting a
protective eye into everything.  Should any extreme begin to gain ground
over the other, neutrality steps in, and rights the numbers, maintaining the
balance between the two.  But then again, there are simply some who do not
care about good or evil, order or discord.  And to these, the way of
neutrality embraces them.  Depending on their mood, their actions lead to
any of the extremes, but call none of them home.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, ORDER, CHAOS 
~

#849
-1 Chaos~
CHAOS

Freedom.  A life devoid of rules, you live according to your own whim, and
nothing else.  Life is as simple as you wish it to be, or as difficult.  But
why would anyone want life to be hard?  If that were the case, you would be
trundling along with the zealots.  You live your life by the day, making no
plans, and heeding nothing.  There are some that call you crazy.  You do
what you wish, when you wish.  How is that crazy?  

Those who walk this way hold no delusions about their moral standing.  Their
behavior is constantly changing, ever altering.  A friendly ear one moment,
and a angry, bitter scowl the next.  People must choose their words
carefully when speaking to them, because you never know how they are going
to react.  There are not many words that can sum up the behavior of one who
follows this way, but it is often said that the only thing consistant about
them is that they are not consistant.  

See also: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, ORDER, NEUTRALITY 
See also: HELP ORDER COMMAND.
~

#850
-1 'religion knowledge'~
KNOWLEDGE

The world belongs to those who are able to know its secrets.  Knowledge is
the key to true power, and those who walk the Path of Knowledge are aware of
this.  They have dedicated their entire existence to one thing, and one
thing only.  Knowledge.  But it what one does with their wisdom that makes
the followers of the different ways unique.  There are some, obsessed with
the accumulation of arcane secrets, twisting and manipulating them to weave
the most powerful spells in Aabahran.  There are also those who focus upon
martial concepts; war, battle, and tactics.  And yet still those who devote
their lives to the preservation and education of the wild, becoming the
reason that so many dread to trek into the forest.  Whatever the reason or
subject of their intellectual pursuits, those that follow this path should
be assumed all that relates to it.  

SEE ALSO: MYSTIC, COMBAT, NATURE 
~

#851
-1 Mystic~
MYSTIC

The mind.  It is the most powerful weapon in the world.  To those who know
it's secrets.  Harnessing powers beyond comprehension to many, you are able
to invoke columns of flame, conjure fields of energy to shield you from
harm, or even take control of another's mind.  There seems no limit to what
you are capable of, but it is not without price.  You have dedicated your
life on the study of the mystic, all things arcane and divine.  Whatever the
source, this power has come through years of hard work, and diligent study. 
Your chambers are lined with tomes and ancient texts, but your mind has
remembered all of their contents.  

The Way of the Mystic is often a path of loneliness, it's members more often
caressing a book, or spending their nights in the company of a scroll lit by
a candle.  Their existence is focused on the assimilation of all things
arcane.  They have done their research, attended their lectures, and
sometimes have been given the gifts directly from the Gods themselves.  With
their wisdom fresh on the mind, they use this knowledge to exercise their
will.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, COMBAT, NATURE 
~

#852
-1 Combat~
COMBAT

The life of a warrior.  You have been one since you can remember.  Maybe a
few too many blows to the head, but it is all that you have known.  A weapon
in your hands is an extension of your anger, a field before you is terrain
to be exploited to your advantage in an upcoming fray.  Some of these tricks
and concepts you have learned through formal study, but most of them have
been gained the hard way; broken bones and periods of unconsciousness.  

Battle tactics, weapon training, and the like are the bread and butter of
those who walk the Way of Combat.  Warriors without equal, they have fought
campaigns still remembered, and lived to tell the tale.  But from all the
death and destruction they have been witness to, they have taken with them
wisdom and experience; two things invaluable when you live life for and by
the sword.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, MYSTIC, NATURE 
~

#853
-1 Nature~
NATURE

None are so at home within the wild as you.  You have been raised among the
trees, and from the sway of their limbs, you have learned that which will
sustain you, and that which will kill you.  Within your forest home, you are
master, and there is nothing that eludes your attention.  Much like the
creatures that you share the forest with, it is kill or be killed, and you
know how to do it.  

Rangers and druids are most often followers of the Way of Nature for obvious
reasons, but just because they wield abilities granted to them by Gaia, it
does not exclude others.  Many tales tell of monks, who have found solace
within the arms of the woods, or the warrior who guards a secluded glade. 
All of these have discovered the secrets concealed within the grass, hidden
within the brush, and cloaked within the canopy.  With these at their beckon
call, they make formidable opponents.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, MYSTIC, COMBAT 
~

#854
-1 religion deity~
RELIGION

In life, you shall devote yourself to a particular god.  You will not select
a patron deity directly, instead choosing a Path best representing your
belief.  Based upon your choices, a deity that best suits your desires and
beliefs will be assigned to you.  This is something taken very seriously,
and one should do their best to represent the God they devote to with the
greatest of respect.  

There are a total of six religions, each subcategorized into three ways. 
	Chance		Death		Equilibrium 
	Knowledge	Life		Faith 

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE,    RELIGION DEATH, RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM 
	  RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, RELIGION LIFE,  RELIGION FAITH 
~

#855
-1 'Religion Death'~
RELIGION DEATH

Death...  The only certain thing within the world.  Those who walk this path
give their praise to an unknown force, for all of those who fall victim to
it, do not live to tell their tale.  The darkness has woven an opaque web
around itself shielding it from prying eyes, and for good reason.  So long
as the forces of good exists, so shall the armies of Darkness.  And so long
as those of the shadows walk Aabahran's soil, all need fear the night.  

SEE ALSO: SCOURGE, CYCLE, NECROPSY 
~

#856
-1 Scourge~
SCOURGE
 
You have always had a cruel streak.  Inflicting pain upon
others has always gotten a rise out of you, and as you aged,
the hatred you have for others has grown with you.  You skill
passion for inflicing pain is only surpassed by your skill at
doing it.  You bring pain and death in your wake as you cut a
bloody swathe through your foes.
 
The walkers of this way are as many as those that they prey
upon.  No caste, race, or creed can claim any majority of them,
as they come from every religious or financial category that
exists.  But one thing is consitent among them.  A desire to
destroy, and the means to do it.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, CYCLE, NECROPSY
~

#857
-1 NECROPSY~
NECROPSY
 
Everyone has their hobby.  As a youth, you can remember poking the dead
bird you found with a stick, fixated on the concept of dead things.  You
matured, but so did your pre-occupation with the lifeless.  Prodding sticks
turned to laboratory equipment as your thirst for knowledge of death
changed to an obsession.  You have searched for years for thick dusty tomes
and ancient molded manuscripts, and your labor has rewarded you well.
you know many things that none else do, and soon...  Soon the means to
escape death shall be yours.
 
It would seem that every path of magic possesses its own sages, and the
path of Death is no exception.  Those who wield it's terrible powers
do so for many reasons.  Perhaps they seek a way to cheat death.  To become
undying.  Or maybe they just have grown too weary of mortal companionship
and seek to raise the dead and make their own friend.  Whatever the
reasons, there is no doubting that their work has paid off, and knowledge
truly is power.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, SCOURGE, CYCLE
~

#858
-1 Cycle~
CYCLE
 
Death is the great beyond.  Once you pass through it's arches,
never again will you return.  Or will you?  The cycle of life
is a cycle of death.  From death have you came, and so shall
you return to it.  There is no avoiding your fate, so why bother
trying.  You perpetuate the cycle by bringing death to those
whose time has run out, beit in your eyes, or those of your God.
 
Those of the Cycle do not kill out of pure lust or acquisition
of power.  They do so to reclaim souls to add to the pyre, and
perpetuate the endless cycle of death and life.  To attempt to
cheat death is folly, and so long as these people exist, it can
be most dangerous as well.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, SCOURGE, NECROPSY
~

#859
-1 'Religion Faith'~
FAITH

If there is one thing that unites every being in Aabahran, it is the concept of
faith; Placing trust, veneration, or even love in a being whose power
exceedes that of any other.  But not all love, worship or even believe in
the concept of Supreme Beings.  While some blindly place their faith in the
unseen, others deny the existance of them, deeming them little more than
mortals with an ego.  Regardless of their views, faith is, and always will
be a integral part of life.  
 
SEE ALSO:  ATHEISM, AGNOSTIC, CHURCH
~

#860
-1 Atheism~
ATHEISM
 
Gods...  You have seen these 'Gods' running around like they own the joint. 
Nothing more than you...  Except maybe a tad bit stronger.  There's is a
power that anyone can achieve.  You've seen it before, you'll no doubt see
it again.  It's just a matter of time.  Some alchemical formula?  Maybe once
you have perfected skill with every known weapon?  Who knows?  It is the
next stage of life.  It just has to be attained. 
 
With each passing year, every mortal get more and more powerful.  And so it
is with the Gods.  They're nothing more than everyone else.  They just have
found the secrets, and moved on.  Was not everyone a child once?  And when
they were, did not your father seem immortal?  Of course.  You have just
grown up.  In the cosmic scheme of things, you are still but a child, and to
get to the higher plateu, you just have to grow up again.
 
NOTICE:  THOSE WHO CHOOSE THIS FAITH WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMUNE.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, AGNOSTIC, CHURCH
~

#861
-1 Agnostic~
AGNOSTIC
 
 Faith is for the weak.  People tell of the grandeur of these Gods, but
you know the truth, the wool hasn't been pulled over your eyes.  While you
do acknowledge the existance of these higher powers, you owe them no love. 
They use mortals as pawns, in a cosmic chess game.  They use you as tools to
gain what they wish.  Spoiled brats is what they are.  Too used to getting
there own way.  Seperate yourself from them, sever all ties.  You want
power?  You want favor?  Rely on none but yourself, and show the heavens
that their aid is both unwanted, and unneccessary.
 
Everyone is a tool, just most people don't know it.  There are some who
claim to have their eyes open, but they're the blindest of them all.  If
they only saw that the power was already within them, they could cast off
their shackles and be free of Immortal Will.  The Gods restort to
underhanded tricks and the strategic manipulation of mortal men and women to
achieve their goals.  Is this not slavery?  The time of slavery has ended,
and the age of true freedom is at hand.  
 
NOTICE:  THOSE WHO CHOOSE THIS FAITH WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMUNE.

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, ATHEISM, CHURCH
~

#862
-1 Church~
CHURCH
 
There are some who call you a fool for your steadfast devotion to an unseen
entity.  Let them talk, it makes no difference to you.  You have felt the
the touch of a God upon your soul, and you there is no denying that.  They
will see the follies of their ways, when they pass from this world.  The One
has been with you all of your life.  When you uttered your first words, He
was there moving your lips.  The first time you cast a spell, he imparted
his essence into you and made the incantations bear fruit.  Your eyes are
open, you may not see him, but you see his might in everything you behold. 
 
The Church of the One relies on faith placed blindly.  Only by venerating
that which you've no proof truly exists, you demonstrate your devotion. 
Only then can true power be felt.  The synics say that the unseen, unfelt,
and unheard does not exist, rather venerating that which can be experienced
directly.  But just because one cannot see the air does not mean it does not
exist, you must simply accept it as truth.  Let the sheep graze mindlessly
in the field, but when the time for the shearing comes, you will not be left
out in the cold.
 
SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, ATHEISM, AGNOSTIC
~

#863
-1 'master questor' questor~
MASTER QUESTOR
Syntax: forfeit questor : forfeits the master questor status
 
  The rewards of completing quests are many, from gold and experience 
to powerful items and practice or train bonuses.  Yet those who truly
commit themselves to exploration and discovery of more quests then any
other gain extra recognition as the Master Questor of Aabahran.
 
A character recognized such gains not only discounts in various stores
due to his fame, but will also heal and regenerate faster then his less
fortunate companions.
 
The title of Master Questor will be assigned to the character whom holds
the most permanent quests in the lands.  In case of a tie for the spot
the title will last for no more then two weeks at a time for given player.
 
See also: HELP QUEST
~

#864
-1 mounted 'mounted combat'~
MOUNTED COMBAT
Syntax:  automatic
 
  While the use various horses and beasts for travel is common in the
lands of Aabahran, the skills to actual carry meaningful combat while
mounted upon a steed are all but unknown.  Yet those whom mastery this
fine art can enter combat upon their steeds and thus benefit from their
stability as well as strike terrible blows at their victims while charging
with a pole weapon.
See also: HELP MOUNT
~

#865
-1 'spirit bind'~
SPIRIT BIND
Syntax: commune 'spirit bind' corpse
 
  By exercising their power over the spiritual world, a shaman can
bind a soul of recently deceased to do their bidding for a short while.
When this prayer is completed, the spirit that still inhabits a fresh
corpse will be bound to the necromancer and attack any whom endanger him.
~

#866
-1 mount~
MOUNT
Syntax:  mount	 : mounts a rented or summoned creature (mounted affect)
	   mount <target>: mounts a creature present in a room
	   dismount
 
  The land of Aabahran is large indeed, and many a sole has been
worn out upon its paths and roads.  To ease the burden of travel
many have begun to use various creatures to ride upon their backs.
While mounted you will experience a minor movement bonus and more 
importantly be able to recover your stamina much faster then on
foot.  Note that if you are summoned, or otherwise forcibly moved,
you will be automaticly dismounted.
 
 Note that while common mounts give benefits which are below that of
an average flight spell, the duration of their stay is far long. Those
mounts that posses ability to fly (manticores, pegasus, nightmares etc.)
give the user the same movement reduction as a flight spell, without
protection against trip.

See also: HELP MOUNTED COMBAT
~

#867
-1 goliath~
GOLIATH
Syntax commune Goliath
 
The legend speaks of this mighty war-horse as a loyal companion to the great
Knight Delvyn before his eventual corruption and fall from grace.  To this
day, those whom are pure of heart and full of valor may call upon this
mighty steed to carry them upon its back.  Unlike mortal mounts Goliath will
always stay near its master and never be separated.  
 
See also: HELP MOUNT, MOUNTED COMBAT 
~

#868
-1 cabal~
CABAL
 
WHAT IS A CABAL: 
 
A Cabal is an organization of elite individuals which has a specific goal,
agenda and exotic powers granted to them by the Immortals.  They offer a
chance for deeper, more advanced role-play, new friends, opportunity to
ascend in cabal ranks and gain respect, power, and loyalty of their members.
The Cabals of Aabahran are for the most part, player controlled, from
inducting new members, to forming alliances or declaring vendettas against
other cabals.  Your chances for induction and future possibilities in
them, are dictated solely by your relationship with its members and their
opinion of you.
 
Each Cabal fathers a clan whose ideals are identical of the formal Cabal.
It is from this clan that the members of the cabal are recruited.  Aspiring
members join the clans and are selected from the pool by their individual
worth, which is reflected in Clan Points (CPs).  The members of
the cabal are expected to maintain close ties with their fledgling clan
 
`!HOW TO APPLY``: 
 
In order to apply to a Cabal of your choice, first use the "help cabals" 
and "help <cabal name>" commands to check the general theme, and entrance 
requirements and make sure you are allowed to join.  When you feel ready, 
you must then find the Cabal's clan HQ.  Based mostly within the confines
of the three great city-states, their locations are considered secret and
not to be divulged.  Part of the application process is locating these
clans by yourself.
 
Once you have located the Clan HQ, a processing fee of 30,000 gold pieces
is needed to induct you into the Clan.  The clan acts as a recruitment pool
for the actual cabals, which watch over the members and groom prospective
inductees for their aspired position.
 
During their apprenticeship in the clan, each member has the chance to earn
clan points by completing various tasks, as well as for excelling in
roleplaying.  They can also lose Clan Points for failing to display the proper 
effort.  Clan Points are a measurement of that member's potential worth to the cabal, 
and inductees are selected according to how many Clan Points they possess.  If you 
wish to graduate from the clan and become a full member of the cabal, you will need 
to excel above and beyond your clanmates.
 
Once you have been selected for induction by the cabal's Immortal leader,
you will need to compose a well written, formatted application addressed to
the cabal name.  The application subject `!MUST INCLUDE`` words "cabal application"
or it will not be considered.  The members of that cabal will then vote on
your application, and if successful, you will be inducted into the organization
at the rank of Inductee(0).
 
Example: 
 
Application to Justice 
Application subject Application to Justice Cabal
 
See also: HELP APPLICATION, CABALS, CABAL RULES, CABAL COMMANDS,
              CABAL POINTS, CABAL POWERS, CABAL VOTES, CABAL RANK,
              CABAL ROOMS, VOTE, BUILD, PACT, TRADE, ARMIES, CLAN
~

#869
-4 cabal~ JUSTICE~
Following powers are available to Justice:
  Initiate:     Judge, Wanted
  Observer:     Third Eye
  Deputy:       Raise Morale
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#870
-1 SENTINEL~
SENTINEL
Those members of Justice whom dedicate their lives to protecting the lawful
cities of Aabahran from dangers of crime are known as Sentinels of Justice. 
They pride themselves upon their abilities to remain watchful and diligent
at all times within their cities, and their primary purpose has always been
that of passive defense.  Escorted by Captains of Guard clad in the heaviest
of armor, they sit within their watchtowers bringing peace and security to
the cities under their guard.  
~

#871
-4 cabal~ SENTINEL~
Following additional powers are available to Sentinels of Justice:
  Patrol:	Guard Captain,
  Sentinel:	Watchtower, Ensnare
  Judge:	Rally Call
  Arbiter:	Elite Guard Captain
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#872
-1 ENFORCER~
ENFORCER

A law without means to enforce it is worth less then the parchment upon
which it was written.  And so the Enforcers of Justice travel the land to
make sure that those whom have crossed the Laws within the areas patrolled
by Justice do not escape its iron grasp.  Capable of commanding ferocious
hounds and using variety of skills and powers to track and incapacitate the
criminals, the Enforcer is most at home outside the cities of Aabahran and
hot on the trail of a wanted criminal.  

See also: HELP JUSTICE, CABAL, CABALS 
~

#873
-4 cabal~ ENFORCER~
Following additional powers are available to Enforcers of Justice:
  Tracker:		Hound Call
  Enforcer:		Hunt, Bolo
  Executioner:  	Observer Call
  Arbiter:		Justice Sigil
 
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
 
~

#874
-1 judge~
JUDGE
Syntax: judge <character>
 
In order to pass a proper sentence, a Justice member requires means of
assessing the criminal's record, and the maximum sentence allowed by the
city in which crime was committed.  This command is special in that it 
requires no scalps to be used.  
 
See also: HELP LAW
~

#875
-4 cabal~ WANT~
WANT
Syntax: want <character>
 
When you have witnessed a crime in a lawful area which prosecutes this crime
("law" command) you may use this command to mark a player as a Criminal, and
to be hunted down and captured by any Justice, and any creatures that aid them.
 
BEWARE:  In order to be not penalized for wrongful accusation:
  1) Make sure that the area in which the crime was committed is Lawful. ("law")
  2) Make sure that the crime is not tolerated in the area. ("law")
  3) Make a Justice was in the area and heard the yell or witnessed the crime.
  4) In case of weapons not sheathed you MUST look at the person first.
 
See also: HELP JUDGE, LAW
~

#876
-4 cabal~ 'THIRD EYE'~
THIRD EYE
Syntax: cast 'third eye'
 
Faced with increased use of magic in the ranks of criminals, the Justice
Cabal developed its own techniques of focusing the mind and senses of its
members to detect an invisible objects.  When cast this spell will allow the
user to see anything cloak in invisibility spell for extended duration. 
~

#877
-4 cabal~ 'GUARD CAPTAIN'~
GUARD CAPTAIN
Syntax:  cast 'guard captain'
 
In order to assure safety and fairness the Justice cabal assigns its
Sentinels an officer as escort.  These Guard Captains are specially trained
to detect and capture criminals, and will periodically check for any
suspicious activity in the area, or when the "apprehend" order is given.  If
a criminal is found, the guard will automatically engage them, adjusting in
rank to match the criminals, or its owner's whichever is lower.  
 
While the Captain is extremely resilient, when he is killed you will be
unable to request a new officer until a suitable replacement is found for
you.  The Captain will always assist you in combat within lawful area,
however when outside he will only engaged criminals.  
 
 
See also: HELP ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN, APPREHEND
~

#878
-4 cabal~ APPREHEND~
APPREHEND
Syntax: apprehend
 
  This command will order any lawful creatures (including Guard 
Captains and Hounds) to attack any criminals present.  It has no 
cost.
 
 
See also:  HELP GUARD CAPTAIN, HOUND CALL
~

#879
-4 cabal~ ENSNARE~
ENSNARE
Syntax: ensnare <victim>
 
By mobilizing a large force of patrols and guards to secure the area, a
Sentinel of Justice can for limited time trap a criminal within its limits. 
The guards will prevent the criminal from leaving on foot, while powerful
wards of entrapment ensure that the victim cannot leave through magical
means.  
 
Note that if you leave the area, the guards will disperse and the criminal
will be able to leave freely.  
~

#880
-4 cabal~ WATCHTOWER~
WATCHTOWER
Syntax watchtower
 
The greatest enemy of Justice has always been those whom hide in the
shadows of cities, striking only when a weakness was obvious.  Seeing their
numbers dwindle as assassins, and master thieves took bloody toll upon their
ranks of Sentinel, the Arbiter of Justice hired the great dwarven smiths
to design and construct special watchtowers which would ensure their members
safety.  
 
Easy to construct, yet extremely resilient and powerful the dwarven
watchtowers allow the Sentinel of Justice to safely keep watch over their
cities.  Safe from prying eyes, and protected from unexpected attacks the
Sentinels were once again free to concentrate upon their duties.  
~

#881
-4 cabal~ 'RALLY CALL'~
RALLY CALL
Syntax: rally
 
Commanding great presence and possessing powerful charisma, a Sentinel
Judge is capable of giving a signal to Justice troops in area.  When the
notes of the Justice war horn pierce any lawful area, these troops will
rally to the call and being to scour the area for any criminals.  Note that
when multiple rally calls are given, the rate of troops being rallied will
be cumulative, while the total present in area is not.  The Justice Arbiter
is capable of summoning more troops and faster then any Judge.  
~

#882
-4 cabal~ 'ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN'~
ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN
Syntax: cast 'guard captain'
 
  An Elite Guard Captain summoned by Justice Arbiter lacks any drawbacks
of his mundane counterpart.  They will allways assist their leader, and
even occasionly step in and take blows meant for the Arbiter.
 
 
See also: HELP GUARD CAPTAIN
~

#883
-1 Vaelinn~
Born a mortal in the second age of Aabahran, Vaelinn was a devout and
powerful cleric who fought to restore order and peace to Aabahran.  Towards the
end of the war he recieved fatal wounds but sustained himself long enough to
see the end of the battle, which was a victory.  As he lay dying he bade his
army to keep that which they had restored.  His noble effort was witnessed
by the gods and they granted him immortality for his sacrifice.  

Vaelinn is the embodiment of order seeking to preserve it at any cost.  He
has never given up on the battle that he fought so long ago, and will not
stop until order reigns supreme.  
~

#884
-1 Vehemant~
Discord.  The Demon Lord Vehemant is the master of it, and pushes his
followers to destroy with vengeance and chaotic wrath.  Most of the public
shuns Vehemant's devolutant ways, but he is a beacon of random wanton
violence for the odd few.  Vehemant is the first of the ChaosDemons, the
tormented and transformed goliaths of wicked pleasure.  To follow Vehemant
is to invite persecution and seek true ecstasy in discord.  
~

#885
-4 cabal~ 'HOUND CALL'~
HOUND CALL
Syntax: cast 'hound call'
        hound <stay/come/hunt/coward>
 
 The Enforcers of Justice are known to employ huge wolfhounds to track
the fleeing criminals across the lands of Aabarahn.  While lacking the
resilience of Guard Captains, the hounds posses great speed and agility
often overpowering their victim with sheer ferocity of their attacks.  Much
like the Guard Captain, the hound will adjust in its power to match the rank
of its victim or its owner whichever is lower.  Much like its Sentinel
counterpart, the hound will assist its owner only against criminals, or
while in a lawful area.  The Elders of Enforcer are assisted anytime.
 
The hound can be given number of orders using "hound" command.
~

#886
-4 cabal~ hunt~
HUNT Syntax: hunt <victim>

By using subtle clues left by a passage of criminal, the Enforcers are
capable of tracking the direction in which the victim has left.  However
this skill is not infallible, and if the trail is cold, or the victim is
using magical means to shield his location the results may be all but
useless.  
~

#887
-4 cabal~ bolo~
BOLO
Syntax: bolo <victim>  :  throw at particular target
        bolo           :  throw at current enemy/criminal
 
  When the inevitable combat and chase ensues, Enfocers use these heavy
spiked weights joined with a rope to hamper or incapacitate their targets. 
When hurled with great speed and accuracy, it is capable of crushing the
victim's legs or windpipe resulting in eventual suffocation and
unconsciousness.  
 
When the command is used without target, it will result in the bolo being
thrown at current opponent OR at any criminal in combat with the hound. 
 
See also HELP HOUND CALL
~

#888
-4 cabal~ 'OBSERVER CALL'~
OBSERVER CALL
Syntax: cast 'observer call'
 
  There are times when one must fight fire with fire, and so the 
Justice Observers were born.  Trained from thieves and assassins 
who joined the side of Law, these shadowy man and women have but 
one role to fulfill:  Remain out of sight, and report any criminal 
activity in area.  
~

#889
-4 cabal~ 'JUSTICE SIGIL'~
JUSTICE SIGIL
Syntax: cast 'justice sigil'
 
  Not even the Arbiters of Justice know for certain where this spell
came from, yet the Chronlords of Savant claim that the original scroll
has been penned by the hand of one called Gorthae.  A powerful and evil
mind mage from alternate time or dimension.  Regardless, the scroll was
said to have simply appeared one day upon a table in Magistrate's Office
and ignored for many years to come.  To this day the specific powers of
this enchantment are unknown but to the Leader of Justice: The Arbiter.
 
Note: Much like Bolo, this spell when cast without argument will target
your current opponent, or if none a criminal in combat with your hound.
 
See also: HELP BOLO
~

#890
-1 crimes~
CRIMES
 
Severity	Allowed penalties
--------------------------------------------------
Allowed:		Not a crime, cannot be wanted for.
Petty:			Normal, Bail 
Severe:			Normal, Bail, Extended
Felony:			Normal, Bail, Extended, Execution
Atrocity:		Always Executed
 
 
See also: HELP LAW, NORMAL, BAIL, EXTENDED, EXECUTION
~

#891
-1 'CABAL COMMANDS' INFO JOIN CHAT 'CABAL CHAT' CABALCHAT DONATE SPONSOR ROOMS PROMOTION MAP~
CABAL COMMANDS
Syntax: cb			: cabal talk
	cabal info		: Offers your cabal's economic status
	cabal info <cabal>	: Offers intelligence on other cabals
	cabal rooms		: Shows info on you rooms and powers
	cabal promotion		: Shows requirements for your next promotion
	cabal sponsor <person>  : Sponsors a character for entrance
	cabal join <subcabal>	: Joins a subcabal once at proper rank
	cabal leave		: REMOVES you from the cabal

	cabal map		: Shows a map of your cabal
	cabal donate		: Donate cps to cabal (at 50% ratio)


	build			: Enters the room builder
	vote			: vote on or create votes
 
These commands deal with workings of your own cabal, and offer various
information to allow you to function effectively.  The "sponsor" command
is usable only if your cabal has decided to use the sponsor induction
system. You may "join"  subcabal once you are high enough cabal rank
to make this choice.  This is usually but not always offered near the
Veteran rank equivalent in the cabal.

The "donate" command allows you to donate your own cp's towards cabal 
coffers.  You lose 50% of the amount donated in the process, and cannot
donate cp's to reach an amount over 500 cp's in cabal coffers.
 
 
See also: HELP CABAL, CABAL POWERS, BUILD, VOTE
~

#892
-1 'CABAL POWERS'~
CABAL POWERS
 
The cabals of Aabahran have all developed various powers intrinsic 
to their own goals, patrons, and believes.  The various powers and 
abilities become available as a member rises in cabal ranks, and
most consume cabal points when used.  The cost for the ability is
visible on the "spell" screen for spells, but can only be noticed
by experience for skills
 
If you do not have enough cabal points to use a skill, or you do not
have the minimum amount of cabal points required to being to use
the power, it will be highlighted in read on "skills" and "spells"
screen.  A cabal power highlighted in such way will behave as if you
had no proficiency in it.
 
Any cabal ability available after the first cabal rank are provided
by specific rooms or buildings that must be constructed by the cabal
before the power becomes available.
 
 
See also: HELP CABAL POINTS, BUILD, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#893
-1 'CABAL POINTS' CP CPS~
CABAL POINTS
 
  Your measure of success and usefulness to a cabal is measured 
in Cabal Points or CP's for short.  Each cabal has its own currency
of cabal points and rewards its members with them for various
actions beneficial to a cabal.  You also gain a small amount of
cp's for merely being present in the lands. The exact amount varies
depending on buildings your cabal has constructed, if it is
engaged in a Vendetta against another cabal. You may check the exact 
amount of cp's gained over time using "worth" command.
 
 
See also: SUPPORT, CABAL POWERS, WORTH
~

#894
-1 'CABAL VOTES' 'CABAL VOTE'~
CABAL VOTES
Syntax: vote create <vote>
	vote target <target info>
	vote subject <subject>
	vote <clear/show/format/send/send urgent>
 
Vote Target: Sets the additional target information for the vote.  This may be
             another cabal's name, type of pact to create, a members name etc.
 
Vote Edit: Enters the text editor to allow you to enter text to be shown 
           with the vote.  This is similiar to contents of a note, and 
           should offer information about your vote.  For details on how 
           to use the editor see "help editor"
 
Vote Send: Deducts the cost in cps for the vote from your and cabal's coffers, 
	   and sends it to be voted on.  
           The vote will be evaluated and decided when its duration expires or 
           enough members vote to create a majority.  You may send a vote with 
           urgency by paying extra cp's to cut the wait before its evaluation.

Note: For purpose and targets of each vote see HELP VOTE LIST
 
See also: HELP EDITOR, CABAL COMMANDS, VOTE, VOTE LIST
~

#895
-1 Rathe~
Rathe's origins are shrouded in mystery. One thing for certain is
that he arrived in Aabahran after Virigoth. Although both serving the
Nameless, Virigoth is more independent. Rathe is a nihilist. He is
single minded and wishes only the destruction of all things living.
He believes life to be a blight and continuously raises armies of
undead and vampires to cleanse the lands. It is rumoured that as
Virigoth moved into the path of Cycle the Nameless conjured up Rathe
to bring a more militant side to the religion of Death.
 
He is an extremely harsh perfectionist with regards to his undead
Horde and it has been known for even the most powerful Vampires to
be crumbled to dust for breaking any of his rules. The favourite god
for sadists, murderers, and pure evil his following will always be
guaranteed.
~

#896
-1 Jemnath~
It is rumored that Jemnath Aermus once was a hermit eons ago, though no
valid proof was found in the scrolls of the past.  Giving food and shelter
to wanderers and merchants, it is said that by time he became well known to
travellers of all kinds as a peaceful and wise man.  By preaching the ways
of tranquility and peace, the old man soon became target for those not
sharing his believes.  Not even the oldest storytellers know an answer to
what happened to him - one day he was not there anymore, his memories fading
in the blurry vision of times past.
 
Apparently, his body failed him, and by means yet to be comprehended by
mortal imagination, his mind and spirit escaped the dieing shell, ascending
to the higher planes of existence, leaving behind the boundaries of
mortality, preaching the only true way of existence: peaceful coexistence of
all beings.
~

#897
-1 'CABAL RANKS' 'CABAL RANK'~
CABAL RANKS

The cabals follow a rank system where a member slowly moves up within the
cabal hierarchy as he or she is promoted by their peers.  The cabals have
various titles to denoted their member's status, which can be seen on
"whois" command.  The default cabal ranks are as follows: 
 
(I)nductee, (M)ember, (V)eteran, (T)rusted, (E)lder, (L)eader
 
In order to be promoted or demoted, someone in the cabal must create
a promotion or demotion vote for you.  If the passes you will ascend
to your new rank.
 
 
See also: HELP CABAL VOTES
~

#898
-1 kalug~
Sent into the pantheon by Gaia herself, Kalug is the voice, arm, and
vengeance of nature itself.  He is as known for his unwavering dedication to
his cause as he is for his quick temper.  Very little is known of his past,
though it is said that he was not born mortal.  He is a champion to all
creatures of the woods and forests, serving as both defender and protector,
and expects those that serve Her to do the same.  While he knows and
understands the importance of the balance of nature, and its role in the
wheel of life, any violation of one of Her creatures or lands is a violation
of his Lady, and swift retribution from him and his followers is not only be
expected, but demanded.  Only the foolish enter his domain with malicious
intent.  
~

#899
-1 BUILD~
BUILD
Syntax: build create <room skeleton>
build replace <new room skeleton>
build <clear/edit/sell/send>
build <name/show/outdoor/description/nightdesc/exits>
 
  The room builder allows a cabal member capable of construction of rooms to
create, edit, replace and describe the rooms that will be built in the
cabal.  Before a "send" command is issued and a vote for the room is
created, the builder must first choose one of the pre-created rooms.  Once
the room "skeleton" is chosen, the NAME, DESC, NIGHT, OUTDOOR, AND EXIT
commands may be used to change various parts of the room to suit the taste
of the builder.  
 
 
At any time the current status of the room you are editing may be displayed
with SHOW command.  An existing cabal room may be SOLD for half its value, 
or you may SEND your building request to be voted on.
 
 
See also: BUILD CREATE, BUILD EDIT, BUILD REPLACE, BUILD EXITS
~

#900
-1 'BUILD SEND'~
BUILD SEND
Syntax: build send
 
  Deducts the cost of the room from the cabal coffers, and the cost
of the build vote from the senders.  A vote for the room is created, 
and when it is accepted the room is built.  If the vote is rejected
the cost of the room is refunded in full.
 
 
See also: BUILD 
~

#901
-1 'BUILD EDIT'~
BUILD EDIT
Syntax: build edit
 
  This command will copy the information of the room you are in, and 
prepare it for editing using various builder commands.  You then may
change various properties of the room you chose to edit.  Once ready 
you may SEND the changes to be voted on or SELL the edited room.
 
 
It costs 50% of original value to update the room with new changes.
 
See also: BUILD SEND, BUILD SELL
~

#902
-1 'BUILD REPLACE'~
BUILD REPLACE
Syntax: build replace <room skeleton>
 
  The replace command prepares the room you are in to be replaced 
with a new room of your choice.  The new room may be edited and
prepared as normal, but when it is sent using SEND command and
accepted in the vote, it will be built in the spot where the original
room was.  Cost of the original room is not returned.
 
See also: BUIL SEND
~

#903
-1 'BUILD EXITS'~
BUILD EXITS
Syntax: build exits <direction>  : New path FROM CURRENT TO EDITED
        build exits <dir> delete : Delete a particular exit
        build exits <dir> desc   : Enter exit description
        build exits <dir> name   : Enter door name.
        build exits <dir> closed : Toggle initial state of the door
        build exits <dir> door   : Create a door
        build exits <dir> nopass : Toggle unpassable door
        build exits <dir> secret : Set door as invisible when closed
 
These commands allow you to change various properties of an exit 
leading in or out of a cabal room. When entering direction keep in mind 
the following simple rule:
 
When CREATING a NEW exit, you specify direction from the room you are 
IN to the room you hope to build. For all other commands, you specify 
the direction as if you were inside the room you are editing.
 
Example:
To create an exit from the room you are in, leading north to the room you are
building: 
"build exits north"
To build a door in the passage we just created: 
"build exits south door"
To make the door in the north/south passage be closed initialy:
"build exit south closed"
 
 
See also: BUILD
~

#904
-1 worth~
WORTH
Syntax: worth
 
Displays various information about your gold, experience and cabal points.
See also: HELP SCORE
~

#905
-1 'DETECT TRAPS'~
Syntax: commune 'detect traps'
  This powerful albeit very short prayer will allow the
priest to detect dangerous traps and devices in nearby
area.  The strength of this inner sight is strongly 
affected by the priest's power in comparison to quality
of the trap.
 
See also: HELP TRAPS
~

#906
-1 Mircea~
Woven from the fabric of magic, swirled with endless knowledge, Mircea
was forged by the Gods as a tribute to their magical powers.  Created with
the ideas of magical dominance and a lust for knowledge, Mircea was a
testament to all that encompasses the magical arts, a monument to knowledge,
and a display for the cohesiveness of both.
 
Mircea was not created with the ability to separate good from evil, nor does
he possess the logic to see outside of his own neutrality.  Magic knows know
bounds or boundries, nor does he.  His creators placed their hands to his
flesh, and it began to glow.  Mircea's flesh began to distort and a mark
took form.  A tattoo of a sorcerer encased in a ring of magic appeared on
his arm where his distorted flesh was
 
Mircea welcomes all those of true knowledge and magic, of anyway logic of
thought, to become one with the Vortex of Magic.
~

#907
-1 Eitreach~
Many eons past the dark wants of mortals grew in such energy and force that
they manifested into a creature unto itself.  This covetous creature, Eitreach,
waited in the shadows for ages, feeding upon the greed and bitter thoughts.
His power grew and he became known to man, gathering worshippers, and finally
ascending into the heavens themselves.  Eitreach is desire manifest and since
he feed on the wants of mortals, he has been known to tempt them to further
their covetousness along.
 
Those who greedily seek wealth and power above all else, seek his favor, for
his blessings are both great indeed.  But wary be those who want too much, for
the Dark Covetor desires much in return.
~

#908
-1 Halruuan~
Once a scheming mindflayer that cared for nothing save his own personal
power.  Halruuan scrambled his way into the heavens using the corpses of
those who fell to his minions.  A master of Necromancy as a mortal, and now
in the heavens, the Lord of Corpses.  It is he who guides those with a
fascination for the dead.  

Those of you whome have an uncanny interest in all things lifeless, and
decayed, rotting and putrid, seek out his guidance and place your faith in
Death and Necropsy.  
~

#909
-1 Yeralon~
Born into a poor family that lived in the small village of Shasarazade
Yeralon spent most of her life tending to others.  Becoming the apprentice
to the town healer she learned many ways to care and help people.  After
serving many years for the town healer he eventually became old and passed
his robes onto her.  Many years later it is said that a weird plague passed
through her village and she worked day and night to cure as many as she
could, eventually falling to a greater disease, exhaustion.  Being over 150
years old she never recovered and it was said her corpse disappeared never
to be found.  Many moons later the town of Shasarazade was once again under
attack and some people say her spirit came to save the town once again but
this time never left.  Now she resides in the heavens above showing
compassion to all she meets.  It is said sometimes she can be found dressed
as a simple healer wondering the road helping adventurers.  

Now as she wonders the heavens above she searches for students to learn and
follow in her ways.  Showing compassion to others, being kind and gently,
acknowledging thy elders, and showing proper respect are just a few of the
qualities of her students.  She strives for the healing and mercy of the
people she tends so they do not have to endure the hard life she once had.  
~

#910
-1 Mhalador~
Even before Mhalador's accession into the heavens, few combatants could
ever wield an axe without knowing of Mhalador and his sacrifice.  Once a
WARMASTER himself, Mhalador threw himself upon an invoker preparing to cast
a firestorm that would demolish the entire WARMASTER horde.  Near death,
Mhalador rouse to once again lead the horde into the crystal tower of the
SAVANTS.  There in the tower, Mhalador died upon the altar of magic tainting
it with his blood.  Soon after his death, news of Mhalador's sacrifice
reached the heavens where an unknown God granted him eternal life and the
Throne of Blades.  

Not everyone can become a legend, but Mhalador encourages his followers to
take pride in their combat skills and strive to become a warrior of
legendary proportions.  To worship Mhalador is to worship the blade itself. 
~

#911
-1 nefar~
The origins of the being known as Nefar are not documented in any
commonly available document.  However, the mad sage Gomfradir, in his
infamous and highly unreliable "Early history of Aabahran", first mentions a
man named Nefar in his ramblings on the origins of Conclave.  According to
Gomfradir, Nefar was a high-ranking spymaster and covert operative in this
organisation of Death-worshipping fanatics.  During a raid on a monastery
inhabited by a diffuse sect of Sirant-worshippers calling themselves "The
Order of Sanguine Light" Nefar was betrayed and murdered by his own men for
reasons Gomfradir does not mention in his text.  

Nefar's name surfaces later in Gomfradir's manuscript however, but sadly in
one ofthe parts which are nearly uncomprehensible.  In a rambling poem
detailing the Gods and their portfolios Nefar is mentioned as "one of the
Shadelords three, the Duke of Lies, a King to be" in a section detailing the
servants of Virigoth.  Nothing more is written, and very few, if any, know
how he rose to the position he now holds.  Nefar now rules the coalition of
crime-families known as "Syndicate", but reports have it that he rarely
interferes in day-to-day business, leaving such matters in the hands of his
capable mortal leaders.  Unlike some of the other Gods, Nefar's agenda is
not known by mortal man but will perhaps be revealed at some future point in
time.  
~

#912
-1 OOC~
OOC
 
As a general rule, words, expressions, and actions that are not compatible
with a fantasy-based world are unacceptable.  Examples of words that do not 
exist are below followed by a common acceptable replacement used:
 
Exp          - Learning
Hp           - Health
AC           - Defenses
Str 12       - Weak
Str 24       - Very strong
Eq           - Wares, Gear
PK           - Murder, Slay
Level        - Rank, Title
 
In general, using numbers to reference anything is a grey area, instead, if
possible, type out the number in question. The 'report' command will also
give those around you a basic assessment of your current physical and mental
status, and typing "group" will show you the current status of you entire
group. 
 
In relation to cohesive roleplaying, using OOC (Out Of Character) knowledge
to motivate your characters actions is also unacceptable.  Using other
characters to kill enemies of different characters, or saying things such
as "My other character is ____" is frowned upon.  Logging off with one
character and performing an action with another that was swayed by a previous
event is using OOC knowledge to motivate action.  For example, a member of
your group is killed, and you log on a healer to resurrect him.
 
SEE ALSO:  ROLEPLAYING, MULTI
~

#913
-1 Trob~
Not much is known about the shadowy deity Trob.  Many say he was once a
great mortal who was skilled enough to steal and drink from the Chalice of
Souls, others say he was spawned from the very deceit of every person, but
none truly know.  A strange creature indeed, often appearing as a little
halfling, he seems to greatly enjoy his own mischievous actions.  Reports
say that Trob, when manifested as in his mortal visage, mostly enjoys
knocking people unconscious, only to dress them up like life-size dolls. 
Those who engage the deity in banter often find themselves incredibly
confused at his use of nonsense and often times completely original words. 
Though he speaks riddles, it is told that when he becomes serious none can
match him in a test of wit, and if so those that do surely never lived to
tell about it.  
~

#914
-1 Gaia~
GAIA

Gaia.  Nature itself.  Gaia is the lifeforce that bonds all things in
nature.  From the smallest plant, to the largest animal, Gaia is a part of
the collective concious of everything in nature.  Gaia has never been seen
by mortal eyes, instead staying concerned with matters of her own.  There
have been rare occassions mentioned where she has come before the Immortals
of Aabahran, seeking their aid, but these events are unusual indeed.  Legend
speaks of a court of councilors that oversee all in Her realm, ensuring the
safety and bounty of her 'children', and if need be, ascending a mortal soul
to immortality to be Her voice in the lands.  Those who serve Her know the
importance of the balance between all life and nature, and stand as
protectors of her and all that she watches over.  
 
SEE ALSO:  RANGER, DRUID
~

#915
-1 NOBLE NOBILITY~
Aabahran is a place of intrigue and danger, yet not too far from the
caverns and fields of chaos rests the many cities and establishments that
serve as bastions of protection.  These towns and cities are ruled by the
royal houses, and under them the noble houses.  

Those of the noble house are above regular citizens, in that they help
assist the royalty in their day to day tasks of ruling and protecting the
towns and cities.  Each of the three city-states, Rheydin, Val Miran, and
Miruvhor, may have up to 5 noble citizens to help rule.  The rest of the
cities may have up to 3 noble citizens.  

Nobles rule with diplomacy, reserved patience, and impeccable writing and
speech skills.  You will be held in a higher light then the average citizen,
and you shall be expected to uphold these exceptional virtues.  Know that at
any time you fail in your duties, you can, and shall be striped of your
title.  

If you feel you are above the average citizen in every way, you should first
seek the noble clan hall, and pay the fees required to enter.  There, you
shall be groomed by others above you in becoming a noble.  The goal of the
clan hall is to provide a hub for all of Royalty and Nobility alike to
gather, and prepare those new into the noble blood.  However, it is the
decision of immortality to ascend you into the house of your choice.  

Once you feel you are prepared, scribe an APPLICATION to immortal, with the
words "Noble application" in the subject line.  Within the scroll, include
which town's house you wish to step into, and all qualifications you feel
you have.  You will be watched, tested, and judged, after-wards you will be
notified of what else is required of you.  

All mortals should realize that disrespecting a member of either the Royal
or Noble house is not only unwise on a mortal level, but you run the risk of
invoking the anger of the gods them-self.  

See also: HELP ROYAL, HELP DIPLOMACY 
~

#916
-1 'BUILD CREATE'~
BUILD CREATE
Syntax: build create: list rooms available
build create <number> : build specific room
 
  The first step in building a room for your cabal, is too choose
what room will be used as the "skeleton" for your construction.
Each cabal has a preset collection of rooms that you may choose
from, some serving specific functions or granting special abilities
to your cabal.  Each cabal is also given at least one "dummy" room
that has no specific function, can be completely edited and built
in great numbers.  This room will usually have a name such as
"En Empty Hallway" or "Empty Garden" etc.
 
Continued in: "HELP BUILD CREATE2"
~

#917
-1 'BUILD CREATE2'~
BUILD CREATE2
The list of rooms shown to you has following headings:
1 . The Keep              Bld: 1500 Cp 100 Sup 15  Pwr: chat
^    ^                     ^        ^       ^            ^ 
|    |                     |        |       |            |
|  Room Name               |    Rent Cost   |        Cabal Ability
Number                Build Cost       Support Cost
 
Build Cost: CP's needed to create the room
Rent Cost : CP's added or subtracted to cabal's income / rent cycle.
Support   : Bonus or penalty to cabal's support rating
Ability   : Some rooms have a specific function that unlocks a cabal
            ability. Use the help command to learn more about each one.
 
See also:  HELP BUILD, RENT, SUPPORT
~

#918
-1 RENT~
HELP RENT
Syntax:  cabal info
 
  As cabals grow and expand, the cabal Elders and Leaders begin to 
issue orders for constructions of rooms that will shape the cabal
to their tastes.  These rooms can either generate, or cost CP's
depending on their nature.  Positive values are income, negative
are costs.
 
  Each cabal has what is called a "rent cycle" that takes full 24
real time hours to complete.  Every cabal statistic dealing with
cabal points, is per rent cycle.  Hence a cabal with income of
500 CPs and rent of -400 CPs would generate 100CPs per cycle (24h)
into its coffers.  If at the end of rent cycle you are significantly
short of CP's to cover your costs, your rooms will be sold for profit
at 50% build cost until the costs are covered.

NOTE:  The actual gain of cps by your cabal happends continously, the
passign of the rent cycle is merely a marker when your cabal coffers
are checked.  If you are significantly short of cps at this time, rooms
and or armies might be sold.
 
See also: HELP CABAL COMMANDS, SUPPORT, CABAL
~

#919
-1 SUPPORT~
HELP SUPPORT
Syntax:  cabal info
 
  Each cabal has a support rating which is based mainly on the amount
of areas it has under control, and reflects its economic strength much 
like the raw supply of minerals, man power, logistics etc.  This value 
is not accumulated like gold or CPs, rather it reflects the cabal's ability 
to support its room, and troops RIGHT NOW.  
 
 As the cabal expands and rooms are built, and troops hired the support
value may be boosted (positive support from areas and raids) or lowered 
(negative support from rooms, armies or raids).  The CP gain for a cabal is 
always equal to 1/10th of the surplus support.
 
Example: 1000 support gain = 100 cp gain per rent cycle.
Example: -500 support gain = -50 cp gain per rent cycle.

 As a cabal takes over areas (if able) it will begin to experience loss 
of support to corruption, to reflect the sprawling empire. The only cure
to this is a Non-Aggression Pacts with the [JUSTICE] cabal.

If your cabal's coffers dip below -1000cps your rooms will be sold until
positive suppport is achieved. 
 
See also: HELP CABAL COMMANDS, RENT, CABAL, ARMIES
~

#920
-1 REVERT~
REVERT
Syntax:  revert
 
This command is used to revert from any shape-shifting spells 
or abilities.
~

#921
-1 Bank Banker Balance Withdraw Deposit~
BANK BANKER WITHDRAW DEPOSIT BALANCE
 
Syntax:  balance
Syntax:  deposit <amount>
Syntax:  Withdraw <amount>
 
BALANCE shows you your current balance.  This must be done at
one of the banks with the lands.
 
DEPOSIT <amount> will deposit the specified amount of gold into
your account, making it available for withdraw.  Do not give your
gold to the banker, as it will not be deposited.
 
WITHDRAW <amount> will deduct the specified amount of gold from
your account.  The bank will assess a fee of 10% of the requested
amount and deduct that from your withdrawl.  You will recieve 90% 
of the amount that you requested.
 
The amount of gold you carry can be determined by using the 'score'
command or by modifying your prompt.
 
SEE ALSO:  SCORE, PROMPT
~

#922
-1 SPONSOR SPONSORED SPONSORSHIP~
SPONSOR
Syntax:  cabal sponsor <character>
 
  The members of cabal may opt to use this type of induction system
in order to focus on quality rather then quantity of their members.
When in use, the system requires any applicant to first seek out
a present member and ask them to "sponsor" them for entrance.  Only
then will they be able to send an application for induction.
 
  When you sponsor a hopeful member four things occur:
1) You cannot sponsor any more people until your pupil's application 
is rejected, or they reach the Veteran status.
2) You have veto powers over all promotion votes regarding the pupil.
3) Any CP penalty applied to your pupil will also be applied to you.
4) When the sponsored person is allowed into the cabal they will being
at rank 1 instead of 0 thus speeding up their progress.
 
See also: HELP CABAL, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#923
-1 SURRENDER~
SURRENDER
Syntax: surrender
 
 
  Those criminals that wish to submit willingly to the forces of Law,
may surrender to common guards, and thus be brought to justice.  Simply
use the surrender command to notify the nearest guards of your wish.
 
See also: HELP LAW, WANTED
~

#924
-1 'AVATAR REQUIREMENTS'~
AVATAR REQUIREMENTS

  Classes: All
  Races	 : All
  Level	 : 15-50
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "avatar application" in application subject
  - Must be good aligned
  - Must be follower of the way of Purity and powers of Life

You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words avatar
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is approved 
you shall be made to know what else is required of you.

See also: HELP AVATAR
~

#925
-1 'DEMON REQUIREMENTS'~
DEMON REQUIREMENTS
 
  Classes: Warrior, Berserker, Cleric, Shaman, Battlemage, 
   Necromancer, Dark Knight
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "demon application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of the way of Dischord and powers of Chance
 
You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words demon
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you.
 
See also: HELP DEMON
~

#926
-1 'UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS'~
UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS
  Classes: All
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "undead application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of powers of Death
 
You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words Undead
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you.
 
See Also: HELP UNDEAD
~

#927
-1 'VAMPIRE REQUIREMENTS'~
VAMPIRE REQUIREMENTS
  Classes: Dark-Knight
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "vampire application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of powers of Death
 
You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words Vampire
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you.
 
See also: HELP VAMPIRE
~

#928
-1 TRANSFORM~
TRANSFORM
Syntax: transform
 
Werebeasts may use this command to transform into their hidden beastly form. The
wait between consecutive transformation is dependant on how long the werebeast
stays transformed.
 
See Also: HELP REVERT
~

#929
-1 'CABAL ABILITIES' 'CABAL ROOMS' CHAT COFFERS HIGHGAIN HEARGUARD GATE GUARD ALLOW2 ALLOW3 ALLOW4 ALLOW5 ALLOW~
CABAL ABILITIES
 
Following are brief explanation of various abilities granted by rooms:
 
CHAT		: cabal chat ("help cabal commands")
COFFERS		: allows cabal to store more then 500cps
HIGHGAIN	: increased rate of cp gain per game hour (tick)
HEARGUARD	: allows to hear reports from jail and city guards
GATE		: locks a cabal when no members present
GUARD		: cabal guard is maintained at the entrance
ALLOW2		: allows (V)eteran level cabal powers
ALLOW3		: allows (T)rusted level cabal powers
ALLOW4		: allows (E)lder level cabal powers
ALLOW5		: allows (L)eader level cabal powers
 
Various rooms also come with their own abilities, for example
a smithy might contain a weapon shop, or object related services.
 
 
See also: HELP BUILD, CABAL
~

#930
-1 WEREPOWER~
WEREPOWER
Syntax: werepower
 
As they grow in ranks and power werebeasts may call upon an ability specific
to their hidden beast.  This can only be attempted while transformed.
 
See Also: HELP TRANSFORM
~

#931
-1 SYNDICATE~
SYNDICATE

There was such time in the history of Aabahran when the crime families of
various city states warred and bickered between each other in their conquest
of the underworld.  Blood of thieves, assassins, and various shady
characters flowed back then as much as of those whom they preyed upon.  Then
with the imminent threat from the undead and the demonic rising upon the
horizon the royal families of ValMiran arose as one in their city and soon
gave a royal order for the first chapter of Justice cabal to be formed in
nearby Ofcol.  

Much like a single mote of dust may start off a chain reaction, the shadowy
crime world of Aabahran was transformed overnight.  The great crime families
joined together seeking stability and power to face this new threat of
organized Law.  And so Syndicate was born.  

Composed of every shade of criminal from whores to deadly assassins, the
Syndicate cabal has established itself as a business enterprise like no
other.  If there is profit to be head, and blood to be spilled their
intricate network of spies, killers and henchmen can be found.  From
espionage to assassinations, from extortion to kidnapping, from drug deals
to legitimate trades their influence may be found in every facet of common
life.  

Yet those whom wish to enter their ranks beware: Though promotion in
Syndicate is as close as exposed back of your superior, those whom take the
quick way through their ranks oft find themselves washed away by the tides
of Dragon Sea.  
See also: HELP BOUNTY, COLLECT, COUP, RAID
~

#932
-4 cabal~ SYNDICATE~
Following powers are available to Syndicate:
  Initiate:		none
  Cugine/Comare:	bribe, abduct
  Stalker:		fade, throat cut
  Collector:		secret arts, asphyxiate, spy
  The Hand:		shadowmaster
  Rat King/Rat Queen:	bloodmark
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.

See also: HELP BOUNTY, COLLECT, COUP, RAID
~

#933
-4 cabal~ BRIBE~
BRIBE
Syntax: bribe
 
  The more enterprising members of Syndicate soon realized that while
the higher ranked members of JUSTICE were all but immune to their
influence, the mere guards and common civil servants were far more 
susceptible to the allure of monetary rewards.
 
  And so the Forgemasters of Syndicate toil day and night to fill the
demand for falsified documents, passes and various bribes that allow
the members of the greatest crime family in Aabahran to pass unharmed
trough scrutiny of all but the most loyal of Justice servants.
 
See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#934
-4 cabal~ secret arts~
SECRET ARTS
Syntax: secretarts
 
  Knowing that its members will have to perform under various 
circumstance The Hands of Syndicate pass their extensive knowledge 
of unarmed combat to every member of the family.  When used, these 
secret arts allow the user to strike with great speed and accuracy 
and cripple their targets.  
 
See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#935
-4 cabal~ THROATCUT 'THROAT CUT'~
THROAT CUT
Syntax: throatcut <victim>
 
  A brutally effective skill employed by members of Syndicate, it's
deadly in its simplicity and effectiveness.  Though the victim
suffers little damage initially, the clear traces of blood which 
wells up from the wound have often been the proverbial nail in 
the coffin of those whom would escape Syndicate's grasp.
 
See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#936
-4 cabal~ ABDUCT ABDUCTION~
ABDUCT
Syntax: abduct set		: future abductions to current area
	abduct set <groupmate>	: future abductions to groupmate's area
	abduct <victim>		: abduct victim
 
  Knowing that at times even the best mind may not overcome the 
opposition and defenses of their targets, The Hands of Syndicate
guided by word of their Rat King set their dark mages to the task
of developing suitable countermeasure.  Fueled by dark magics the
powers of abduction spell are capable of instantly transporting
the user, and the caster to another locale.  While initially an
unskilled user has no control over their destination, as their
skill improves they become capable of abducting to the general
area of their choice, or even another person.

NOTE: Abduction will ignore the diplomatic immunity, and will 
remove it on success.  However it can ONLY be used to targets
who presently have bounties set upon their heads.
 
See Also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#937
-4 cabal~ ASPHYXIATE ASPHYXIATION~
ASPHYXIATE 
Syntax: cast 'asphyxiate' <target>

Not stopping after development of the magics required for Abduction, the
dark mages of Syndicate created this cruel spell in their greed for graces
of the Rat Queen.  When successfully cast the spell greatly dilutes the air
around the victim causing severe choking and eventually suffocation.  Though
the spell is not powerful enough to completely remove air from around the victim,
its power is quite sufficient to cause severe discomfort and eventual
lack of consciousness.  

 See also: HELP SYNDICATE 
~

#938
-4 cabal~ SHADOWMASTER SHADOWMASTERY~
SHADOWMASTER (Min. 500 cps)
Syntax: automatic
 
  The Hands of Syndicate hold as much power as the Rat King or Queen
Itself, yet it is them that are often first in line when an aspiring
leader of Syndicate rising in ranks.  Thus honed by years of use, their 
senses and skills survival in the underworld are unmatched by any other 
save the Rat King and Queens.  To assume them vulnerable to common rouge
tricks, is to feel the cold kiss of steal in your own back.
 
See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#939
-4 cabal~ BLOODMARK~
BLOODMARK (Min. 600 cps)
Syntax: cast 'bloodmark' <victim>
 
  Though many would believe it otherwise, the power of the
underworld of Aaabahran united under the banner of Syndicate
is force to be reckoned with.  Not only because their silent
fingers can each almost anyone anywhere, but because it is the
common men and women, the peasants and countless masses of
poor that fear their mere name and hearken to their wishes.
 
The bearer of the Syndicate bloodmark will be as if exiled
from every land in the Aaabahran. Death has no effect on
this penalty.
 
See also: HELP EXILE, SYNDICATE
~

#940
-1 EXILE~
EXILE
Syntax: exile <victim>
 
  The Royals and Nobles of Aabahran hold the right and power to
exile any single person from within their City State.  The
person thus exiled will not be served in any of the city
stores, guilds or temples.  If the city is the victim's
hometown, they will not be able to recall to it as well.
 
See also: HELP ROYAL
~

#941
-1 'BOUNTY COMMANDS'~
BOUNTY COMMANDS
Syntax: bounty cp    <amount>	: adds cps to the bid
	bounty gold  <amount>	: adds gold to the bid
	bounty add   <object>	: adds the item to the bid
	bounty rem   <obj>	: removes item from the bid
	bounty place <victim>	: place the bid onto the victim

	bounty			: show the bid you are working on
	bounty clear		: clears the bid
	bounty <name>		: views bids on the name
 
  These commands allow you to adjust your bid for the victim's
death.  You may place any amount of gold, cabal points, or up
to five limited items as the reward for their death.  Once you
are satisfied with your bid, use "bounty place <victim>" to add
this bid onto the bounty for the victim's death.  If you have
previous bounties for that victim, the new bid will be added on.

You must be in an appropriate locale to place a bounty.
 
See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#942
-1 BOUNTY~
BOUNTY
Syntax: bounty <cp/gold/add/rem/clear/place>
bounty place <victim>
bounty buyout
 
  The Syndicate cabal continues to maintain that its primary 
income is from its various trades and shops.  However even
the youngest thief knows that it is the bounties given out
for various individuals in the lands, usualy in the not so
secret locales in the major cities.
 
A bounty may be placed upon anyone's head using gold, cabal 
points or limited items as the price of their death.  A single
target may have many individual "bids" from various parties
interested in their death, with the bounty hunter being able
to see each bid, and its contents but not who placed it.

 Members of cabals allied to Syndicate are allowed to buy out
 a bounty set upon their head.  The price of this transaction
 is dependant on the actual bounty and will be quoted when the
 "bounty buyout" command is used before the actual transaction.

NOTE: Bounties marked with (`!$!`3``) symbol have been paid for
by an allied cabal and will grant higher payment, and a larger 
share of the bounty.
 
Continued in HELP BOUNTY2
See also: HELP BOUNTY COMMANDS, CONTRACT, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#943
-1 BOUNTY2~
BOUNTY2
 
When the victim is killed, the bounty hunter then selects
the bid that seems most lucrative to them.  All the contents
of that bid are then transferred to the bounty hunter who
will receive gold, cabal points and equipment contented in
that bid as well as the best three limited items from the
victim based on item level.
 
At the same time, the person who placed the "winning" bid
chosen by the bounty hunter, receives the remaining limited
items from the victim, and the satisfaction of knowing
that their target has been justly done in.
 
The following rules apply to bounties and limited items.
- Only up to 5 limited items may be placed in bids
- The victim must be higher in rank the 40 OR in a cabal
- You will only receive victim's limited items if you
  are of rank 40 or higher.
 
 
See also: HELP BOUNTY COMMANDS, CONTRACT, BOUNTY, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#944
-1 CONTRACT~
CONTRACT
Syntax: contract  : lists available contracts
contract <victim>: contract out the given bounty
 
  Being skilled traders as much as killers, the Rat King 
and Queens of Syndicate quickly realized that it will not 
be possible for their forces to cover all the possible bounties.  
Thus any contract not capable of being covered at the given 
moment by the forces of Syndicate is available to be contracted 
out by anyone willing to do it. 
 
See also: HELP BOUNTY, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#945
-1 COLLECT~
COLLECT
Syntax: collect <victim>	: collects first available bid
	collect <victim> <bid #>: collects using the given bid
	collect list <victim>	: lists bids by cp
	collect gold <victim>	: lists bids by gold
	collect obj  <victim>	: lists bids by avg. object level
	collect list <name> <bid #>: shows bid in detail
 
In order to collect a bounty for death of a victim, the 
hunter must use the collect command while the victim is 
stunned before them.  When using the collect command you
may select the bid you chose to receive for their death. 
All the contents of that bid will be transferred to you
along with three best limited items from the victim.  Rest
of the limited items are given to the creator of the bid
you have chosen.
 
See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, TOP10
~

#946
-1 TOP10 'TOP 10'~
TOP10
Syntax: top10
 
  Shows the highest 10 bounties according to gold, 
cp and object level.
 
See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, COLLECT
~

#947
-1 COUP~
COUP
Syntax: coup <victim>
 
  The more 'ambition' driven organizations in Aabahran allow
their members to attempt a power coup as a means of promotion
rather then the standard slower means of advancement.
 
A coup may only be attempted upon a victim who belongs to 
your cabal, and is within two cabal ranks from your own rank. If
you manage to kill them during the duration of the coup, you
will automatically ascend to their rank, while they will descend
to yours.  If you die to them in your attempt however you will
be demoted TWO ranks and the victim will remain unchanged.
 
NOTE: If you fail a coup (get killed) and you are of cabal rank
lower then Veteran (2), you will be removed from the cabal.
~

#948
-1 'VOTE LIST' BUILD 'CABAL TAX' DEMOTION ELDERSHIP EXPEL LEADERSHIP PROMOTION POLL TITHE~
VOTE TYPES
Syntax: vote create: lists avaliable votes
	vote create <votename>: create the vote
 
 Depending on your cabal rank various types of votes 
may be avaliable for you to create.  Below is a list
of various vote types, and short explanation of each.
 
- BUILD:		target: none
This vote is never created by a player directly, but rather 
generated by the "build" command.
 
- CABAL TAX:		target: tax level in percent
This vote decides the tax level for all income based on
actions of cabal members.  The tax portion of the income
is placed in cabal coffers.
 
- DEMOTION:		target: cabal member
Demotes the target cabal member one rank
 
- ELDERSHIP:		target: cabal member
Promotes a target member of cabal to the rank of Elder.  The 
member must be of rank Trusted.
 
- EXPEL:		target: cabal member
Expels the target member from cabal, the member must be of 
rank lower then Elder.
 
- LEADERSHIP:		target: cabal member
Promotes a target member to the rank of Leader.  The member 
must be an Elder.
 
- LAW:		target: <crime> <maximum penalty>
Sets the maximum penalty that the Justice may place for
a given crime.  Requires a Trade Pact with Justice Cabal.
 
- PROMOTION:		target: cabal member
Promotes the target character one rank up to rank of Trusted.
 
- POLL:		target: none
Creates a general opinion poll for the cabal members.
 
- PACT:		target: <pact> <cabal>
See HELP PACT
 
- TITHE:		target: cabal to tithe to
Gives a gift of cabal points to another cabal, improving the relations
between the cabals based on the amount tithed.
See also: HELP CABAL VOTES, PACT
~

#949
-1 diplomacy 'diplomatic immunity'~
DIPLOMACY
Syntax: diplomacy
 
  The Royal Houses of Aabahran have long perfected the art of
politics and diplomacy.  Those members skilled in the arts of
negotiation may declare themselves envoys and employing armed
entourage for protection remain safe from any danger.
 
  The diplomatic immunity will cause you to be removed from
PlayerKilling range of all players in the game, and will cause 
the <`8PK``> symbol to appear by your name.  The diplomatic
immunity will continue to protect you as long as one of the 
following holds true:
 
- You are in a city
- You are in a cabal
- You have not been recently involved in combat

If none of these conditions are valid, you are abducted, or you 
become "bloody" through combat or otherwise, your diplomatic status 
will be lost.
 
See also: HELP ROYAL
 
~

#950
-1 GUILD~
GUILD
Syntax: guild: shows all available guilds.
guild <#>: chooses particular guild
 
This command allows an Adventurer to join a particular guild.
When you join a guild you will transfer any common skills and
spells but you will be reduced back to the 1st rank of that 
guild.  Your statistics (health, mana, movement)  will be
reset to the starting levels of the particular race-class
combination.
See also: HELP ADVENTURER
~

#951
-1 nagscreen~
.

   Please take this time to hit the vote links available 
     on our homepage (www.forsakenlands.org) and the forum.
 
   Doing so will cancel reminder of this wait, and prevent
   this screen from slowing you down in the rush to death
   and glory the next time you log in.
 
   We thank you for your support.
                                 Staff of Forsaken Lands.
~

#952
-4 cabal~ REGENERATE~
REGENERATE	(Min 300 cps)
Syntax: cast 'regenerate'
 
  Imbued with the forces of nature, the caster of this spell
experiences true regeneration of wounds without any further 
effort.  The regeneration will stop when its force is expanded
or the duration of the spell runs out.
 
See also: HELP WARDER
~

#953
-1 KNIGHT KNIGHTS 'KNIGHTS OF THE CROWN'~
KNIGHTS
 
  Though few believe it these days, there has been such time in annals 
of Aabahran when the lands were free of the taint of Undead and Demonic
and the people of the land led their lives free of the corruption visited 
upon them by the powers of Nexus.
 
  Yet as all good things come to an end, so did this grand age of happiness
and in the time when the JUSTICE was weak, and the Royal Houses young the
shadowy powers of darkness were first spotted upon the horizon by the Royal
House of ValMiran.  Wasting no time the ValMiran royals gathered with the
Houses of Rheydin and Miruvhor and quickly formed an elite force of men and
women to counter this threat.  Called the Knights of the Crown, and guided by
the Royal Houses, they were Aabahran's last defense against the tides of 
darkness.
 
Yet seeing the House of Rheydin fickle in their loyalty and pursuit of
riches, and the House of Miruvhor often allied with the dark powers the
newly formed Knights of the Crown knew that only by remaining independent
of these squabbling royals, will their victory be assured.
 
And thus the Knights of the Crown were formed, and upon their shoulders
rested the safety of Aabahran as they searched for the True King to once
again unite the Royal Houses and bring harmony and peace upon the land
once more.
 
SPECIAL TRAITS:  Experts in fortifications, Knights construct better bastions.
Any area owned by them, will grant moderate health recovery bonus to any 
good or neutral aligned creature.

See Also: HELP SIGIL, PRAETORIAN, ARMIES
~

#954
-1 PRAETORIAN~
PRAETORIAN
 
  Formed from the fighting core of the elite warriors of the Royal Guard,
the Praetorians originally composed all of the Knights of the Crown forces.
Fiercely honorable and known to fight against all odds with reckless courage,
it is said that the souls of their fallen are reincarnated as the Holy 
Vanguards to forever battle the evils upon Aabahran.
 
 The Praetorians draft only the best into their ranks, and require their
recruits to serve as squires before passing grueling tests to become a member
of their ranks.  Those whom aspire to join them in service to Aabahran should
hold Honor and Courage in the highest regard.
 
 The Praetorian faction believes that only through military campaigns against
those whom seek to taint Aabahran will peace be brought to the land once more.
To this end they travel the land forever on the lookout against forces of Nexus.
 
See also: HELP SIGIL, KNIGHT
~

#955
-1 SIGIL~
SIGIL
 
  Soon after the first major campaign against the forces of Undead and Demonic
was won, a great unrest developed amongst the forces of Knights of the Crown.
Many thought that only by continuing the battle and completely eradicating
the unorganized forces of darkness will a full victory be achieved.  Yet there
were also those whom seeing the bloody price of the recent victory, preached
that to follow such path would be to suffer a pyrric victory.
 
  Their forces weakening due to internal strife, the Knights of the Crown
sought compromise, and so the faction of SIGIL was born.  Composed of the those
whom would forgo the blind aggression of Praetorian and temper it with wisdom
and foresight, their members watch over the lands of Aabahran for signs of
corruption and evil.
 
  Rarely found far from battle, the Sigils as they are called are renown for
their wisdom and knowledge as well as uncanny ability to ferret out all evil
no matter how well disguised.  Often serving as scouts and watchers of the 
Knights, no servant of darkness has been able to fool their sight.
 
See also HELP PRAETORIAN, KNIGHT
~

#956
-4 cabal~ knight~
Following powers are available to Knight:
  Initiate	:     none
  Squire	:     Inquisitor
 
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#957
-4 cabal~ INQUISITOR 'DEMON HUNTER' AVATAR~
INQUISITOR
Syntax: cast inquisitor: Summon or upgrade an Inquisitor
servant <sentinel/watch/return/coward>
 
  Soon after the first victories of Knights against the forces of evil,
the faction of Sigil first encountered the shadowy members of Nexus
whom unlike all previous beings of Undead and Demonic kind cloaked
themselves in illusions, and darkness rather then challenge the Knights
openly.
 
  Seeing these new deceptions the Sigils recruited and trained special
servants who's only purpose was to aid the Knights of the Crown in fighting
these new foes.
 
 
NOTE:  While the initially the Inquisitor is quite weak, with higher Cabal
Ranks you will be able to upgrade them into more formidable forms by
recasting the spell.
~

#958
-4 cabal~ 'ward of the crown' 'ward of crown'~
WARD OF THE CROWN
Syntax:cast 'ward of the crown'
 
A simple ward used by early Sigil recruits, it not only protects
the user against evil but also helps in focusing the mind towards
regeneration of divine powers.
 
See also: HELP SIGIL
~

#959
-4 cabal~ 'SENSE EVIL'~
SENSE EVIL
Syntax: cast 'sense evil'
 
Knowing that not all that seems to be benign is, the Sigils through
their focus upon the mystic and spiritual world soon developed an
inner sight that allowed them to glimpse all forms of evil around them.
This spell will allow the user to see any evil creature, though with no
specific detail.
 
See also: HELP SIGIL
~

#960
-4 cabal~ 'GOLDEN AURA'~
GOLDEN AURA
Syntax: cast 'golden aura'
 
This simple yet powerful prayer can grant long lasting protection
against all evil, as well as any harmful magic towards anyone who
stands in the group with the caster.
 
See also: HELP SIGIL
~

#961
-4 cabal~ VANGUARD~
VANGUARD
Those who's virtue has been tested in mettle of combat, and whom
have achived high rank within the Knights of the Crown may be
occasionly blessed with one of these immortal servants of Sirant
in their battle against the dark tides.
 
The Vanguard may be called upon by upgrading the Inquisitor.
 
See also: HELP INQUISITOR
~

#962
-4 cabal~ sigil~
Following powers are available to Sigil:
 Watcher	:     Ward of the Crown, Sense Evil
 Sigil		:     Golden Aura, Vengeance
 Seer		:     Vanguard
 King/Queen	:     Diplomacy
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#963
-4 cabal~ VENGEANCE~
VENGEANCE
Syntax:cast vengeance
 
Knowing that purge defense is a futile measure in the fight against
the darkness that assails the land, they begun to use this mighty
prayer to turn the force of shadow upon itself.  When used, it will
cause a portion of every force used against the caster to be stored
and released against their enemy in form of a brilliant burst of
magical force.
 
See also: HELP SIGIL
~

#964
-4 cabal~ GUARD~
GUARD
 
Syntax: guard <target>: guard a chosen person
guard <self>: stop guarding
 
It is said that besides a full parade of Order of Crusades few
sights are so awe inspiring as a column of Knight Praetorians 
marching with their shield and arms guarding each other's flanks
presenting an unbreakable front of flesh clad in metal.
This valuable skill has proven its worth in many a battle where
outnumbered and doomed the Praetorians have only survived by
the strength of their loyalty to each other.
 
See also: HELP PRAETORIAN
~

#965
-4 cabal~ CHAOSBANE~
CHAOSBANE
Syntax: cast chaosbane <dagger/mace/flail/sword/axe/staff/spear/glaive/beads>
 
Focusing their devotion and purity the Praetorians are able to
craft these wondrous weapons in their cause against the shadow.
Light and extremely sharp they deal swift retribution against
the powers of Nexus and the Undead.
 
See also: HELP PRAETORIAN
~

#966
-4 cabal~ 'MINOR BANISHMENT'~
MINOR BANISHMENT
Syntax: cast 'minor banishment' <target>
cast 'minor banishment'
 
After years of fighting the demonic allies of Nexus, the Knight Sigils
have finally glimpsed a weakness in the seemingly invulnerable Demons
and crafted this potent spell to help the Praetorians in their battles.
When used it attempts to banish the powers sustaining the Demon in the
Prime Material plane causing it great hardship and suffering in the
process.
 
See also: HELP PRAETORIAN
~

#967
-4 cabal~ 'HOLY ARMOR'~
HOLY ARMOR
Syntax: cast 'holy armor'
 
Those in the ranks of Praetorians whom have proven their worth are 
blessed by the powers of Light with this powerful supplication.  When
used it imbues the caster's armor with the very essence of light 
improving its quality and imbuing it with most wondrous properties.
 
See also: HELP PRAETORIAN
~

#968
-4 cabal~ PRAETORIAN~
Following powers are available to Praetorian:
 Recruit		:     Guard, Chaosbane
 Praetorian		:     Minor Banishment, Holy Armor
 Lady/Lord of Battle	:     Vanguard
 King/Queen		:     Diplomacy
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#969
-1 PACT PACTS~
PACT
Syntax:   vote target <pact> <cabal>
 
Forsaken Lands uses a system of diplomatic pacts to simulate
the relations and trade between its cabals.  Any cabal may
choose to form following pacts between itself and another
cabal:
 
TRADE: See HELP TRADE
 
VENDETTA: See HELP VENDETTA
 
PEACE:  When agreed upon, it ends a Vendetta against the 
given cabal.
 
EMBARGO:  Halts and cancels all trade treaties with the given
cabal.
 
NEGOTIATE:  When agreed upon, allows a fully developed Trade
pact to progress to Non-Agression pact, and NA Pact to Alliance.
 
See also: HELP TRADE, HELP VENDETTA
~

#970
-1 TRADE NA-PACT ALLIANCE~
TRADE

[SYNDICATE  ] [===|==-|---|---] Trade           : -1cp
  ^              ^               ^                  ^
  |            Relation Rating   |             Costs/Benefits
Cabal being traded with         Pact Type (Trade, NA-Pact, Alliance)

When formed this pact allows for trade to flow between the two 
cabals, adding additional gain of cabal points and support
based on the raw income of each cabal.  The initial trade
gain starts as negative to reflect the investment of resources
required to forge new trade routes, then with increasing
relations grows upwards.
 
The "rating" of the pact, reflects the relations between the two 
cabals.  It will grow better in time, and can be further boosted 
by tithes and specific actions of cabal members.  When the pact 
reaches high enough rating, a NEGOTIATE pact may be created by 
either one of cabals, which if voted and agreed upon will allow 
the trade pact to progress to NA-Pact, and NA-Pact to Alliance 
carrying further benefits such as no sudden Vendettas, unrestricted 
entry to Allied cabal grounds, and sharing of military resources.

The relations with various cabals are very dynamic and can be impacted
by actions directed against other cabals.  If you hold relations with
cabal A and cabal B whom are also allied with eachother, any harmful
action against A will result in suffering relations with B etc.  This
means that decisions that have a potent impact on your cabal politics
should be weighted carefuly as to not leave your cabal weakned due to
lack of trade or numerous Vendettas.
 
Any negative actions such as killing a member of your allied cabal
(bounties do not affect relations) will hamper the relations between
your cabal, as will failure to fulfill services listed in HELP 
TRADE2
 
A trade pact with one of the cabals offering services will usualy
offer specific advantages listed in HELP TRADE2
 
See also: HELP TRADE2, PACT, VENDETTA
~

#971
-1 TRADE2~
TRADE2
 
The following service cabals will offer specific advantages
to its trading partner, in exchange for cost in trade.
 
JUSTICE:
  Any Royal cabal forming trade with Justice will
  have their city become Lawful, and will gain ability to 
  set laws within their city.  While their home city remains
  lawful the Royal House and all its members will enjoy a
  large boost to the gain of cabal points over time.

    Justice NA-Pacts and higher also help to curb corruption
    for cabals with large support ratings.
 
  Correct marking of criminals, capture and judgment will
  all improve relations.  Failure to recognize crimes will
  hamper them.

SYNDICATE:
  Alliance:  Allows you to use your cps to buy out any bounties
    set on you. See HELP BOUNTY for more details.
 
  NA-Pact:  You gain access to the network of spies that will
  allow you to gain information on other cabals using "cabal info",
  and "cabal armies" command.  You will also be informed when a 
  bounty is set on your head, by whom, and will be able to glimpse 
  who is bountied.
 
  Collection of allied bounties will increase relations.
  NOTICE: Collection of a bounty on an allied cabal member has no
  impact on relations, unlike normal attack and death.
 
See also: HELP TRADE
~

#972
-1 VENDETTA~
VENDETTA
An official declaration of armed action against another cabal.  
It boosts the time gain of cabal points for members, as well as 
allows attacks of the enemy cabal by your armies.  Unlike other
cabal pacts, the "rating" of Vendetta will start out as "good"
and with armed action grow worse to reflect the suffering relations.
If no armed action is taken for extended time, the relations will
improved to the point where Vendetta will break off automatically.
The same may be achieved with a PEACE pact.

Cabals whom you have Vendetta against will have their armies automaticly
attacked by your patrols, and their members will be attacked on sight
by your cabal guards.

See also: HELP TRADE
~

#973
-1 army armies conquest conquer conquered~
ARMY
Syntax: army	  : enters command mode zoomed in on last room
        army      : leaves the command mode
        army last : enters command mode zoomed in on last army report

An army is the basic unit used by cabals to wage armed conflict.  The
cabal members act as generals of their troops and from any place in the
land may direct their armies to wage war upon their enemies.

For details on each army command use "help army <command>" 
Ex: "help army ?" (list of all army commands)
 
See also: HELP ARMY PROMPT, ARMY COMMANDS, BASTION, REINFORCE, SUPPORT, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#974
-1 BASTION BASTIONS TOWER TOWERS FORTRESS FORTRESSES CASTLE CASTLES~
BASTION
 
A bastion is any static defense built by a cabal's army to defend
and secure an area.  When in an area that has reinforcement (see
HELP REINFORCE) an army can be ordered to build a bastion through
garrison order.  Once built, the bastion can be garrisoned with
troops increasign their armor value to that of the bastion.
 
TAKING OVER AN AREA:
Each area has a maximum number of bastions it can support.  If a
cabal builds more then half that maximum's bastions they conquer it.
An area that has no bastions will eventualy rebel against the cabal
that holds it, and turn neutral.  You can find out how many bastions 
your cabal has in an area and its maximum using "[M]ap" army command.

See also: HELP ARMY, REINFORCE, ARMY GARRISON
~

#975
-1 REINFORCE REINFORCEMENT~
REINFORCEMENT
 
A key idea required for successful warmongering is the concept
of reinforcement. An area is reinforced if your armies can get
to it by traveling through allied territory.
 
Armies in areas that are reinforced will gain +10% defense per hour
as long as they are out of combat.  Bastions require more effort to
rebuilt and will gain +5% of their defense.  Since armies cannot heal
or move into an unreinforced area it is crucial to protect your supply
routes.
 
Example:
  Cabal-A-B
	  |
	  C-D
"A" belongs to KNIGHT, KNIGHT can reinforce "A", "B" and "C" but not "D"
 
See also: HELP BASTION, ARMY, ARMY GARRISON
~

#976
-1 'ARMY CONSCRIPT' 'ARMY TRAIN' 'ARMY RELEASE'~
ARMY CONSCRIPT TRAIN RELEASE 
Syntax: conscript <armies>
	train <armies>	 
	release <armies>

CONSCRIPT:	Drafts specified number of armies.  Use 0 to halt
		conscription.
TRAIN:		Upgrades specified number of regular units to elite.
		Use 0 to halt training.
RELEASE:	Disbands given number of units from barracks.  Regular
		units are disbanded before elites.
See also: HELP ARMIES
~

#977
-1 'ARMY GARRISON' 'ARMY FORTIFY' 'ARMY eGARRISON' 'ARMY eFORTIFY'~
ARMY GARRISON FORTIFY
Syntax: garrison  <army ID>
	egarrison <army ID>
	fortify   <army ID>
	efortify  <army ID>

GARRISON:	When given, this order will cause an army to leave barracks
		and garrison the room you are zoomed in on.  Completed
		bastions start at 1% defense, 50% if built by elite unit.
		You may give army ID to use for garrison instead of
		barracked army.
FORTIFY:	Used to upgrade bastion currently zommed in on, to its
		fortified version.  Fortified bastions have stronger defense
		and higher armor rating.  Fortifications are completed
		twice as fast by elite units.
		You may give army ID to use for garrison instead of
		barracked army.

See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#978
-1 'ARMY ZOOM' 'ARMY ORDERS' 'ARMY QUEUE'~
ARMY ZOOM MAP ORDERS QUEUE
Syntax: queue
	orders
	zoom <army ID>

QUEUE:	Displays the army report queue containing important past
	reports from armies.  You can use the army IDs in reports
	to quickly zoom in on the action.
ORDERS: Displays all armies under your command and their current
	orders, state and area.
ZOOM:	Zooms in on the room with the given army.  All army orders
	such as attack, hold, and garrison require a room to be
	zoomed in on as destination.
	Use "zzoom" to flip back to last zoom target.

See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#979
-1 'ARMY ATTACK' 'ARMY PATROL' 'ARMY HOLD' 'ARMY BARRACKS' 'ARMY AATTACK' 'ARMY PPATROL' 'ARMY HHOLD' 'ARMY BBARRACKS'~
ARMY ATTACK PATROL HOLD BARRACKS
Syntax: attack <army ID>
	patrol <army ID>
	hold   <army ID>
	barracks <army ID>

** Attack, Patrol, and Hold all target the currently zoomed on room ***
** eAttack, ePatrol, eHold all result in elite army leaving baracks ***

ATTACK:		Sends an army from barracks to attack and destroy all 
		unfriendly units in target room.  You can choose an
		army to send instead of a barracked one.
PATROL:		Sends an army to patrol currently zoomed on room. The
		patrol will intercept and attack any armies moving
		past it.  You can select a specific army to patrol.
HOLD:		Sends an army to currently zoomed on room, with orders
		to defend any friendly units and hold the room against
		any attackers.
BARRACKS:	Orders the target army to return to barracks.

See also: HELP ARMY COMMANDS, ARMY COMBAT
~

#980
-1 'ARMY COMBAT'~
ARMY COMBAT 

Army combat occurs when two hostile armies occupy the same room.  The
armies which have just arrived become the attackers, while the armies
previously present become defenders.

Armies battle untill either all the attackers or all the defenders
are destroyed.  When an army is defeated, the remining forces always
target the army with the lowest defense.  Bastions do not take part 
in battles untill all of the defending patrols and garrisons are destroyed.

FLYING ARMIES:  Flying armies are capable of partially attacking all
of their opponents in the area.  However the damage caused is weakened
for each additional opponent. (Full damage to first, 1/3rd to second
1/9th to third and so on.)

See Also: HELP ARMY COMMANDS
~

#981
-1 'ARMY MAP'~
Syntax: map 
	map <map ID/cabal_name/world>

The map command shows all the units stationed in the area.  You can display
map of area in which you are zoomed in ("map"), specific area map ("map #"),
listing of all the areas you have units in ("map world"), and list of all
areas a particular cabal has units in ("map <cabal>").

MAP SCREEN:
---------------------------------------------------------
Focus   Bas  Gar  Pat    Attackers    Room
[#13  ] [V] [v ] [V ]    [Nn ]     The Central Square

[R]ValMiran             B:1/8  G:1  P:1  S:281(90%)
---------------------------------------------------------
- We can use army ID 13 to zoom on the room
- The room has a fortified val miran bastion, 1 normal garrison and 1 elite
  patrol
- There are two Nexus armies, one normal and one elite attacking
- The area (ValMiran) can be reinforced ([R]) by our cabal
- Our cabal has 1 out of 8 bastions, 1 patrol and 1 garrison in the area
- We are collecting 281 support from this area
- We are collecting 90% of maximum support possible due to support spent on 
  garrisons

See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#982
-1 'ARMY ?' 'ARMY COMMANDS'~
ARMY COMMANDS

Army units orders:
     [A]tack,  [P]atrol,  [H]old,  [G]arrison,  [B]arracks
Elite units orders:
     [aA]tack, [pP]atrol, [hH]old, [gG]arrison, [bB]arracks

Barracks related commands:
     [C]onscript, [T]rain, [R]elease

Informational commands:
     [Z]oom-in, [M]ap, [O]rders, [Q]ueue

** Use "help army <order>" to get detailed info on each order. 
See also: HELP ARMY
~

#983
-1 WARDER~
WARDER
 
Since people began gathering like cattle into a pen, they have built
structures to house themselves and to protect each other from their
neighbors.  As they grew the names changed with the size of the structure,
village, town, city.  They hold many names, and have many uses for those
that live there, but they are a cancer upon the lands and nature.  They are
lands stolen, taken from the creatures that called them home to serve those
that intruded and claimed them for their own.
 
With these structures firmly built, the intruders then proclaimed
themselves rulers of the lands, Royalty, and declared their words the laws
of the land.  These thieves believed that by killing and razing the sacred
glades of nature, it gave them the right to govern all.  How wrong they
were, for nature rebelled, and the spirit of nature cried out to its
followers, seeking those that would restore its lands, and drive out the
thieves that stole them from its grasp.  And so they came to answer the
call, and were given the name Warder.  Their purpose was simple and direct:
Drive out the false rulers of the cities, those that uphold their laws, and
to tear down and reclaim what they had caused to be.
 
See Also:  HELP WATCHER, STALKER
~

#984
-1 'ROYAL CALL' 'ESCORT' 'ROYAL ESCORT'~
ROYAL CALL
Syntax: escort
 
 With only a simple order the nobility of Aabahran may summon their
loyal subjects to guard their persona against the hardships of the 
lands.  The type of followers summoned and their strength varies
with the cabal rank of the royal member.
 
See Also: HELP ROYAL GUARDS
~

#985
-1 Nexus~
NEXUS
 
The struggle for good and ill has been waged since time began.  And upon
Aabahran's soil, it still wages on.  But there has been no war so epic
and grand in scale as the war between the Knight of the Crown and Nexus. 
 
Hundreds of years ago, when the world was still young, there spawned a
legion of undead fighting alongside demonkind.  Their numbers, while small
had a tremendous impact upon the world and it's residents.  In response to
this unholy threat, the city-states of Val Miran, Rheydin, and Miruvhor
created a vast army to battle the legion, and send them back from whence
they came.  And for many decades the cities fought together, and the end of
the Legion seemed unavoidable.
 
However, the ruler of the Miruvhorian Throne, soon fell in league with
the armies of death, and succumbed to their wishes, granting them warriors
to secretly battle the cities to the west.  They watched from the shadows as
the legion spared their city, and moved on.
 
The City of Rheydin, more intent on money and power, withdrew their troops
and bolstered their own defenses, hoping to fight off the infernal army if
they dared attack their gates.  They watched from their counting rooms as
the legion spared their city, and moved on.
 
Though many of their number had fallen, the remaining forces of evil were
far from defeated.  They hid, reorganized, and became what is now known as
Nexus.  Bent on the eradication of Light, and the enslavement of Aabahran, they
have made unholy pacts with the denizens of the underworld and the planes of
Chaos to better strike down their ancient enemies, The Knights of the Crown.

SPECIAL TRAITS:  The hordes of Nexus enter Aabahran through unholy gates.
This cabal can recruit more armies and do it faster then normal.
Nexus areas cause slightly more damage with weapons and spells then normal.
 
See Also:  REAVER, PANDEMONIUM, ARMIES, COUP
~

#986
-1 pandemonium~
PANDEMONIUM
 
Shortly after the first battle was lost against the newly formed Knights of
the Crown, the forces of death drew into seclusion and began their dealings
with the divine forces of evil.  Though the mass of the troops were warriors,
dealing death by blade and fist, there remained a small contingent of unholy
clerics and magi.  Reasonably more intelligent and cunning, these spell-users
withdrew from the front ranks, and parlied with the otherworldy represntatives
of evil.
 
Seeing more power in foresight, and manipulation, the faction now called
Pandemonium sat in the rear lines, destroying hope and their enemies will
through deal-making and propoganda.  Through intense study of demon-summoning
and the like, they augment the warriors of Nexus with infernal magics, and
summoned fiends to do their bidding.
 
See Also:  NEXUS, REAVER
~

#987
-1 reaver~
REAVER
 
With the first defeat by the Knights of the Crown, humiliation washed over
the front ranks of the unliving, demonic horde.  In their retreat, the front
rank fighters of the battle swore never to be defeated again.  With the aid
of the faction of unholy seers, Pandemonium, they summoned and bound infernal
servants to their cause.
 
From the seeping pits of the Nexus came forth demons like those the world has
never seen, and from these masses formed a core of soldiers that along with the
legions of darkness that joined them were to be known as Reavers upon the world.
The Reavers has been said to wield the very energy of the Nexus as blades in
their conquest of the lands.
 
See Also:  NEXUS, PANDEMONIUM
~

#988
-1 'ROYAL GUARDS'~
ROYAL GUARDS
Syntax: royal <guard name>
 
 Members of royalty or nobility may choose what sort of guards are 
summoned by their escort order.  When choosing use the royal command 
followed by the singular version of your guard's name.  
For example "royal elite assasin".
 
NOTE: You can set your guard only ONCE in your lifetime.  You will
be shown the results before confirming your choice, so choose carefuly.
 
See Also: HELP ROYAL CALL
~

#989
-4 cabal~ NEXUS~
Following powers are available to Nexus:
  Initiate      :     none
  Slave         :     Serpent Call
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
See also: HELP COUP
~

#990
-4 cabal~ 'SERPENT CALL'~
SERPENT CALL
Syntax: cast 'serpent call'
 
Bred within the bowels of Nexus Fortress, and fed scraps of slaves and
captured prisoners the dark serpents often reach sizes which dwarf a large
horse.  Trained as flying mounts for the warriors of Nexus they carry their
masters to battle against all that oppose them.  Many an army has been reduced
to rout upon a mere sight of these flying beasts with their masters saddled
upon their back with the demonic hordes at their beck and call.
 
See also: HELP MOUNT
~

#991
-1 BARD BARDS~
BARD
 
Bards are the jacks of all trades in Aabahran.  Dabbling in every
profession but excelling in none, they are daring swordsman with a flashy
style of combat, capable thieves and rudimentary spell casters, making their
living as rouges, adventurers, minstrels, and storytellers.  They also
possess the ability to weave powerful magical enchantments using their songs
and instrumental music.  Their melodies can quicken one's feet for battle,
provide nourishment and drink for entire gatherings, or strike down their
enemies with crippling weakness and powerful magic. 
 
Although they lack the specialized abilities of other professions, the 
Bard's diversity and flexibility makes them an easy class to survive with
and perfect for those whom have just begun to get their feet wet in the PK 
environment.
 
See also: HELP REHEARSE, REFRAIN, DUET, SONG 
~

#992
-4 cabal~ PANDEMONIUM~
Following powers are available to Pandemonium:
 Possessed   :     Conjuration, Shroud of Discord
 Pandemonius :     Eye of Moloch, Maze
 Forsaken    :     Simulacra
 Archfiend   :     Nemesis
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#993
-4 cabal~ CONJURATION CONJURE~
CONJURATION
Syntax: conjure <demonic ally>
 
 
 Long have the members of Pandemonium trafficked with the evil forces 
inhabiting the Nexus, before the constant sacrifices of bodies and
souls gained them meaningful allies.  Those skilled in this ritual
may attempt to conjure these powers and battle them for mental
domination to gain some powers inherent to each of the ally.  Beware
however for those whom fail against the demonic powers, or are 
disturbed during this ritual often pay the ultimate price to the
treacherous powers they traffic with.
~

#994
-4 cabal~ 'SHROUD OF DISCORD'~
SHROUD OF DISCORD
Syntax: cast 'shroud of discord' : create or toggle the shroud.
 
 Extending their skills into control of the negative forces of Chaos,
members of Pandemonium have learned to bend it towards their own uses.
A shield fashioned out of its power around the user can either protect
him or enhance any pain dealt to an enemy.  However only the Elders of
Pandemonium can hope to control the exact nature of Discord.
~

#995
-4 cabal~ 'EYE OF MOLOCH'~
EYE OF MOLOCH
Syntax: cast 'eye of moloch' : draw the eye or release its charge.
 
 Moloch the great demon of pain, misery and sacrifice has oft been known
to be appeased by shows of agony exacted upon unfortunate victims.  Using
this conduit the caster calls upon themselves the attention of the vile
demigod only to let loose its fury at later time.
 
When first cast Moloch blesses you with a weakest of gifts, as it observes
you fight with others its blessing will increase in duration and occasionally
in power.  When you wish to release its effects upon the one whom you are
in combat with, simply cast the spell the second time.
~

#996
-4 cabal~ MAZE~
MAZE
Syntax: cast 'maze'
 
 Calling upon the raw powers of chaos and discord the caster of this
enchantment may create a maze born of various realities stitched together
in such fashion as to be completely inescapable.  The victim is thrust
in its middle without any hope of exit or escape until the powers holding
it together weaken sufficiently to return them to their old reality.
~

#997
-4 cabal~ SIMULACRA~
SIMULACRA (Min 250 cps)
Syntax: cast 'simulacra' <target>
  
Enveloping themselves in illusion and enchantment the elders of Pandemonium
are capable of fashioning a perfect simulacra of another person in vicinity.
The illusion is perfect in every form and will last its duration or until
the user uses the "revert" command.
~

#998
-4 cabal~ NEMESIS FACELESS~
NEMESIS (Min 500 cps)
Syntax: nemesis <target>
 
There is an ancient legend told in lands of Aabahran to the younglings, a
tale of a proud and noble Knight in another country perhaps even another
world.  The Knight knew no defeat and no weakness of character.  Yet he fell
madly in love with a beautiful princess, for whom he left his blade, kingdom
and lands behind to travel to her own homeland.  They lived there for
sometime and the Knight knew true happiness with his new wife.  Yet one day
as he returned to his home to find his beloved in lover's embrace with a
dark man he did not know.  In fit of terrible rage born of anguish and
betrayal the Knight slew his lover and pursued the other in vain.
 
Days went by as the Knight searched in his quest of revenge.  They turned
into weeks then months then years, the thirst of elusive revenge driving the
Knight's mind deeper and deeper into the dark recesses of madness.  No one
knows how long this Knight searched, nor how long he lived before his flesh
finally gave out under the unyielding yoke of a broken mind.  Yet it is said
that his corrupted and twisted spirit still rides through the Limbo and
Nexus, its blank featureless face madly seeking any living thing which it
may become to take yet another soul in its mad quest for vengeance. 
~

#999
-1 Savant~
SAVANT
 
Aabahran was scarred and burnt when the final battles of the War of the
Legions had been won.  The broken forces of the darkness that would be NEXUS
and the rebellious ranks of KNIGHT had each taken refuge in the far corners
of the world.  But unbeknownst to them both, another force lay in waiting. 
Nearly a year to the day after the Great War, a tall featureless tower
appeared unexplainably upon the horizon.  It's walls were devoid of life,
but the multitude of rooms were filled with scores of ancient tomes,
moth-eaten and time-worn.
 
The massive doors of the tower remain closed for eons, turning away those
who sought entrance within.  But then, without explanation, they opened. 
Within the next few decades, magi from across the lands entered the tower
and partook of it's knowledge.  Armed with their new-found knowledge, they
emerged from the Tower on a quest to drive ignorance from the lands, and
educate the world in the ways of magic.  For their hermetic ways, and vast
pools of knowledge, the populace of Aabahran dubbed these scholars SAVANTS.  

Special traits: Savant armies are summoned or created.  Their armies 
cost extra to recruit and train, but are more powerfull and always fly.  
Any mage or half-mage present in Savant owned area will recieve their aid in 
regeneration of mental powers.
 
See Also:  MYSTERUM, TEMPORUM, ARMIES
~

#1000
-1 Mysterum~
MYSTERUM
 
Beyond the limits of mortal vision, lay planes of energies that defy
explanation.  It is rumored that these are the planes of the Immortals, or
the borders of worlds other than our own, but only a select few know for
sure.  Steeped in long-forgotten knowledge, the ranks of MYSTERUM see
beyond, immersing their minds in these energies and learning from them.  
 
The contact with these powers take their toll, however, and often, these
sages show evidence of delving too deep.  Eccentric and unpredictable,
MYSTERUM are the eyes and ears of SAVANT, casting their gaze beyond, in
efforts to garner what will aid their quest to bring knowledge to the
masses.
 
See Also:  SAVANT, TEMPORUM
~

#1001
-1 Temporum~
TEMPORUM
 
The river of time runs swiftly, and it's course has brought magi from all
the corners of Aabahran to guard it's flow.  With the appearance of the Tower
those who studied within it's walls learned how to manipulate and even
change the course of time.  With time comes wisdom, and with wisdom, comes
power.  The members of TEMPORUM, rather then spend time towards aimless
divination and gazing into the beyond seek to unlock the secrets of time
itself through application of their knowledge.  
 
Their minds are like knifes, and their whispers are words with power to 
cut open the curtains of universe and reveal the treasures beyond.  With
the flow of time at their beck and call few are those whom would dare to
oppose them. 
 
See Also:  SAVANT, MYSTERUM
~

#1002
-1 Warmaster~
WARMASTER

From the settling mist of the War of the Legions stood many battle- hardened
warriors of enormous experience and strength.  Attempting to return to their
normal lives, they found that they only thirsted for the rush of battle, the
warcries of friend and foe alike.  Unable to return to their normal
societies, these warriors joined together, secretly at first, to continue
sharpening their battle tactics.  

After some time of this secret sparring the Warriors decided they could no
longer conform to their own lives and removed themselves from civilization,
out to where they could feel the rush of near-death whenever the need arose.
Naturally through their dedication these great war veterans learned and
traded battle tactics, creating an art of physical combat with no mortal
equivilant.  

From these warriors a great society has risen based on three major values:
Honor, Physical Strength, and Self Reliance.  Combining these three
strengths the Warmasters of the land have managed to grow to a world power,
rivaling the most powerful armies with their own strengths.  Commoners often
report seeing these behemoths standing on street corners evangelistically
preaching the arts of self- reliance.  It is also said that those who dare
heckle their ministries often find themselves hanging from a pike, used as a
sparring dummy for new recruits 
 
Special traits: Due to their experience and charisma each Warmaster general
can command and field two armies more then usual.
Any warrior class traveling through Warmaster owned area will use less movement
and regain it faster then usual.

SEE ALSO: HELP GLADIATOR, BARBARIAN
~

#1003
-1 Gladiator~
GLADIATOR
 
From within the secluded civilization formed by veterans of the
War of the Legions a sect branched consisting of those warriors who sought
absolutely natural means styles of combat, and total honor in battle.  These
noble blademasters have discovered ancient forms and stances to aid them in
battle, bringing themselves far greater strength than most magics can grant.
Reports from those watching these masters at work have told great tales of
immeasurable accuracy and precision with their weapon masteries.  The
Gladiators have taken the goals of the Warmasters to an extreme, relying
solely on their own power and becoming models of their own preachings.  A
sheer statue of physical prowess, few who battle Gladiator in natural form
have survived to share the tale. 
 
SEE ALSO: HELP WARMASTER, BARBARIAN
~

#1004
-4 cabal~ 'CHAOS BLADE'~
CHAOS BLADE
Syntax:  cast 'chaos blade'
 
Drawing on the very forces of evil and chaos itself, a Reaver can
temporarily call into being a weapon of darkness.  It extends from 
the wielders hands as a weapon of random elemental material to strike 
down any foes foolish enough to stand against them. Using the powers 
of spawn blade for manipulation, and by binding torments to the chaos
blade, the Reaver can increase the potency of the weapon.  Elders can
manipulate and focus the energy to form weapons of specific materials.
~

#1005
-1 BARBARIAN~
BARBARIAN

Shunned by their fellow warriors, the BARBARIANS secluded themselves even
more from their society and the rest of the world to further develop a
fighting style all their own.  Often imploring what may be considered
thuggish tactics to some, it is not uncommon to see these seemingly rough
cut men use every aspect of the battlefield to their advantage from the dirt
on the ground to trampling their opponent while they are down.  

While those that call themselves the BARBARIANS are every bit as skilled in
combat as the GLADIATORS, these brutish men have chosen to rely on more than
just their skill with a blade.  While the principles and ideals of the
warrior lifestyle still hold true to these men of combat, it is their belief
that having the upper hand on their opponent is the key to victory whether
it is by their skill alone or accepting arcane forces.  

See also: WARMASTER, GLADIATOR 
~

#1006
-4 cabal~ CALL VOID~
CALL VOID
Syntax:  cast 'call void'
 
Creating a void to the heart of the Nexus, the caster unleashes the forces
of pure chaos into the area.  These forces tear at and unravel the very
fabric of reality bringing harm to all in the proximity of the caster, and
may cancel all magic surrounding his foes.
~

#1007
-4 cabal~ SPAWN BLADE~
SPAWN BLADE
Syntax:  spawn <elongate/fortify/fragment>
 
After a Reaver has created a Chaos Blade to wield, they have the ability
to spawn it to further serve them.  There are three ways a Chaos Blade
can be modified:
 
Elongate:  This changes the blade into a two-handed weapon.
Fortify:  Extends the life of the blade.
Fragment:  Splits the blade allowing the user to wield a blade in the off hand.
 
Once the weapon has been spawned it cannot be spawned again.
 
See also:  HELP CHAOS BLADE
~

#1008
-4 cabal~ TORMENT BIND~
TORMENT BIND
Syntax:  cast 'torment bind' <Moloch/Bael>
 
When a Reaver casts this spell upon a chaos blade, he calls upon one of
two Nexus demigods to imbue his blade with a portion of their power.  The
demigod called upon determines the powers granted.
 
Moloch:  Allows the blade to ignore any resistance and vulnerability that the foe
may have.  It also boots the strength of afflictive spells cast.
 
Bael:  Increases the accuracy of the wielder and causes protective shield 
spells to last until the power has dissapated.
 
See also:  HELP CHAOS BLADE
~

#1009
-4 cabal~ REAVER~
Following powers are available to Reaver:
 Sadist		:     Chaos Blade, Call Void
 Reaver		:     Spawn Blade, Torment Bind
 Fiend/Fury	:     Mold Chaos
 Archfiend	:     Nemesis
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1010
-4 cabal~ 'MOLD CHAOS'~
MOLD CHAOS (Min 250 cps)
Syntax: mold
 
Schooled and used to working with the raw powers of Nexus, the 
wielders of this terrible power may use their powers to directly
control and shape the very essence of discord and chaos.  Calling
upon these powers they may form the Chaos Spawn, and bind its 
services from within the Nexus to their cause.  While the link
to the spawn is initially short, its duration will never shorten
while in combat, and may even grow as its master allows the vile
being to toy with its victims.
~

#1011
-4 cabal~ SAVANT~
Following powers are available to Savant:
  Initiate      :     none
  Apprentice    :     Vortex Tap
  Magi		:     Reverse Time
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1012
-4 cabal~ 'STAND GROUND'~
STAND GROUND
Syntax: cast 'stand ground'
 
 Long renown for their ability to defend ground against a numerically superior 
foe, the Preatorians have developed special chants and prayers used to focus
their mind in these situations.  Once thus focused upon standing their ground
they begin to take special note of any local advantage that may be used to
gain a defensive advantage.  The effects of this ability will fade after first
successful flee from any combat.
~

#1013
-4 cabal~ 'VORTEX TAP'~
VORTEX TAP
Syntax: automatic
 
 Using their link and knowledge of the Vortex of Magic, the
members of Savant are taught early on the skill of attuning
their minds to the energies and presence of the Vortex.  As
the strength of attunement grows the caster becomes capable
of drawing a portion of a spell's power from the Vortex 
itself, lowering the mental fatigue required to cast a spell.
~

#1014
-4 cabal~ 'REVERSE TIME'~
REVERSE TIME
Syntax: cast 'reverse time'
 
 Harnessing the most basic of the powers available to them,
the Savants are capable of warping the flow of time about
themselves and reversing it at a faster pace.  For duration
of this enchantment all spells and effects affecting the
caster will rapidly grow in length with each hour.  
 
NOTE that the caster can protect themselves against the
negative effects of reversed timestream only in the room
the spell was cast.
~

#1015
-4 cabal~ 'CHRONO SHIELD'~
CHRONO SHIELD 
Syntax: cast 'chrono shield'

A simple yet powerful application of Savant's ability to warp the fabric of
time lies in this spell.  When used, a conduit is created to the caster's
near future.  From this point on, until the spell itself expires, a portion
of all damage done will be redirected through time itself to the caster's
own self in not far future.  The spell has a built in safety and will not
absorb more then the caster's own maximum health will allow.  
~

#1016
-4 cabal~ 'TEMPORAL STORM'~
TEMPORAL STORM 
Syntax: cast 'temporal storm'

Unleashing wild forces of time upon an unfortunate victims, the Temporal 
Storm though short in duration can bring about devastating results.  For as 
long as the vortex of time rages the very flow of time taken as granted and 
unchangeable will play havoc with the victim's body and mind.  
~

#1017
-4 cabal~ WEBBING~
WEBBING
Syntax: cast 'webbing'
 
 This simple spell will cause the caster's hands to emit strands of
webbing much like those of the large arachnids of Aabahran.  The webs
will not only make it impossible to fly, but even once broken will
hamper movement of the victim.
 
See also: HELP WARDER
~

#1018
-1 Chakera~
CHAKERA
Syntax:  automatic
 
Due to their extensive training of anatomies, monks are able to strike points
in the bodies of their opponents quite hard, capitalizing on any potential
weaknesses, and exploiting them.  This strike has the potential of disrupting
the protective shield of a spellcaster, thus making them succeptable to bashes
and bodyslams.  This brutal attack is highly damaging, and leaves one's apponent
stunned for a moment as he or she recuperates from the strike.  Unliving opponents
and immune to this attack and ogres have been told to often shrug off it's effects.
~

#1019
-4 cabal~ TEMPORUM~
Following powers are available to Temporum:
 Channeler                : Reverse Time, Age
 Temporum                 : Temporal Storm, Temporal Avenger
 Chron Master		  : Ripple
 Time Lord/Matron of Time : Contingency
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1020
-4 cabal~ MYSTERUM~
Following powers are available to Mysterum:
 Acoylte                  : Reverse Time, Chronoshield, Paradox
 Mysterum                 : Faith Ward, Vocalize, Curse Ward, Town Gate
 Augur/Sybil		  : Ocularis Arcanum
 Time Lord/Matron of Time : Contingency
 
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1021
-4 cabal~ PARADOX~
PARADOX
Syntax: cast 'paradox'
 
  Substituting an inner instinct for the logical understanding
practiced by members of Temporum, a fully initiated Mysterum
is capable of creating an extremely localized Paradox within 
the time stream.  Though its effects take hours to be felt
when it occurs the rapid adjustment of the timeline can be
easly taken advantage of by a trained Mysterum.
 
See also: HELP MYSTERUM
~

#1022
-4 cabal~ 'VOCALIZE' 'CURSE WARD' 'FAITH WARD'~
VOCALIZE, CURSE WARD, FAITH WARD
Syntax: cast 'vocalize'
	cast 'curse ward'
	cast 'faith ward'

These three abilities have been gleaned by the Sybils of Mysterum
and then fashioned to fit their vision from various futures and
pasts.  When used each one will create a ward around the caster
protecting them from spells of silence or curse or blasphemy.
When the ward detects an active malady upon its owner it will 
use its stored powers to negate the effect, and begin to recharge
for half days time.  Only one ward may be placed at any given time.

See also: HELP MYSTERUM
~

#1023
-4 cabal~ AGE~
AGE
Sytnax: cast 'age' <victim>
 
  One of the most dreadful abilities called forth by the
Temporums causes the victim to age instantly.  The weight
of years brings with it a penalty not only to the offensive
abilities of the victim, but may also cause them to forget
how to use particular skills.
 
See also: TEMPORUM
~

#1024
-4 cabal~ 'TEMPORAL AVENGER'~
TEMPORAL AVENGER
Syntax: cast 'temporal avenger' <victim>
 
  Using their knowledge of the temporal mechanics, the Temporums
have developed this spell to aid them in their more offensive 
pursuits.  When cast upon a target the spell creates a temporal
conduit to the victim in near future.

See also: HELP TEMPORUM
~

#1025
-4 cabal~ 'TOWN GATE'~
TOWN GATE
Syntax: cast 'town gate' <city>
 
  After the Mysterum masters the powers of the Paradox, they are
slowly exposed to far greater mysteries and powers of Time.  With
time, they can focus upon the myriad of futures that unfold with
each second, and choose to exists in a particular future. Using
the great cities of Aabahran as focus for this ability, the 
Mysterum can will itself and any of its allies to a new location.
 
See also: HELP MYSTERUM
~

#1026
-4 cabal~ 'OCULARIS ARCANUM'~
OCULARIS ARCANUM
Syntax: cast 'ocularis arcanum' <victim>
 
  The powers of this spell are not clearly understood yet, as
the Sigil which divined it through the Eye of Time disintegrated
moments after from what seemed to be an enormous mana flare.
From the careful research conducted upon the spell it is clear
however that its effects have something to do with channeling
magical power.
 
See also: HELP MYSTERUM
~

#1027
-4 cabal~ RIPPLE~
RIPPLE
Syntax: cast 'ripple' <victim>
  By directing precisely formed blasts of temporal energy at a
victim, a weakness in the fabric of time can be created.  The
weakness in turn may cause the space-time continuum to ripple
around the victim, often causing them to walk in straight
circles enter the exact same place they have left.

See also: HELP TEMPORUM
~

#1028
-4 cabal~ CONTINGENCY~
CONTINGENCY
Syntax: contingency <condition> <spell>
 
  Using their skills and control over time, the Savants are capable
of creating a static spell which is only activated when a proper
condition is fulfilled.  When this condition is met, the spell is
instantaneously incaned by the caster and takes effect regardless
of caster's position or previous actions. Following are the details
of each conditions:
 
ATTACK:  Released when the caster begins combat.
DEFENSE: Released when caster is attacked.
SUMMON:  Released when caster is summoned.
DISPEL:  Released when caster is fails save against dispel magic spell.
HEALTH:  Released when caster is below 30% hp
MIND:    Released when caster is below 30% mana
 
Limitations:  You may only store defensive spells, and must be capable
of casting the spell when the condition is met or it will fail.
 
See also: HELP SAVANT
~

#1029
-4 cabal~ 'RAISE MORALE'~
RAISE MORALE
Syntax: cast 'raise morale'
 
  Using their leadership skills, the Justice may raise the morale of
their Guard Captains or Wolfhounds and inspire themselves and their
troops to better pursue and deal with the criminal element.  The large
boost to morale will cause the Captains to choose their weapons according
to the criminal's weakness.  The wolfhounds in turn will fight with 
greater ferocity and attempt to blind their opponents with dirt whenever
possible.
 
See also: HELP JUSTICE
~

#1030
-1 QRACE~
QRACE
 
Many different races of people call Aabahran home, but many more still have yet
to emerge from the hidden parts of the world.  
 
The Implementors of the Forsaken Lands have given you the oppurtunity to apply
to have a custom race, limited only by your imagination.  Before you apply how-
ever, please consider these criteria:
 
1)  You must have exceptional RP.  From the second you entered Aabahran, you have
exemplified everything that your desired race is.  At no point in time should
you break RP and 
 
2)  Your desired race needs to be somewhat compatible with your original (ie,
no elves applying to be giants, or vice versa.) This is not a tool to bypass
racial vulnerabilities, etc.  Your desired race must also be within mortal
bounds, and not 'immortal' races, such as angels, devils or the like.
 
3)  An extremely well-written description is required.  If you do not have this
completed, do not even apply.  Your description will be checked by more than one
immortal, and it will be good to pay special attention to it.
 
4)  Send a note in APPLICATION form to 'Immortal', detailing your character's
history and it will be reviewed.  A well-written application is required.  The
application should be no more than 70 characters per line, and be thought out
and formatted.
 
The above criteria are merely a guideline, and there are more things that are
considered when a custom race is approved/declined.
~

#1031
-1 HITROLL DAMROLL SAVES~
HITROLL DAMROLL SAVES
 
HITROLL:  You will find that many items add or subtract from your 'hitroll'.
This is a measure of your accuracy in combat.  A high hitroll will aid you in
bypassing an opponents armor, defenses and hit more frequently.  In addition
to items, your strength will effect hitroll as well.
 
DAMROLL:  In addition to hitroll, some items often effect damroll as well.
This is a measure of how much damage your attacks inflict.  Your hitroll will
be added to your weapon's damage to determine your total damage.  Things such
as certain spells, abilities, and armor class will increase or decrease the
amount of damage that you will deal.
 
SAVES:  Sort of an AC against spells, saves will prevent or reduce the effects
of spell cast upon you by an opponent.  Saves begins in the positive and go down
as they improve so it is beneficial for your saves to be as far into the negatives
as possible in each of the four categories.
 
See Also:  SPELLS, AFFLICITIVE, MALEDICTIVE, MENTAL
~

#1032
-1 Roleplay Roleplaying RP~
ROLEPLAY ROLEPLAYING RP
 
Roleplaying is not merely required here at The Forsaken Lands, it is enforced.
You are all expected to develop a personality for each of your characters and
act accordingly.  Roleplaying is something that can only be bettered with a lot
of practice and here are but a few keywords that will aid you in defining your
character(s) personality:
 
Family:  Was your character an only child?  Did he/she have siblings?  If so,
how many?  What did your parents do?  How did they act?  Are they still living?
 
Early Childhood:  What was your character's youth like?  What did he/she do for
fun?  Did he/she have many friends, or was he/she a loner?
 
Likes:  What sort of things/activities does your character enjoy doing?  Maybe
your character enjoys whittling wood, and is known to pull out a chunk of wood
and carve away.  Perhaps your character enjoys nothing as much as a nice cigar.
It may be a hobby, a particular food, or even a group of people.
 
Dislikes:  What sort of things does he/she dislike?  Maybe he/she isn't fond of
onions, or maybe the smell of leather drives him/her to anger.
 
Long/Short Term Goals:  What does your character want to accomplish in the near
future?  This could be such things as being accepted into a particular clan or
cabal, or even defeating an enemy.  What about in the long run?  Does he/she
want to destroy every gnome in Aabahran, or save them all?
 
This is but a short list of examples.  Expand a bit and your character will no
longer seem to be a string of numbers and letters, but a living and breathing
person all its own.
 
See Also:  OOC, ALIGNMENT, ETHOS, RELIGION
~

#1033
-1 Damnation~
DAMNATION
 
Among Aabahran's citizens, none are more dedicated to their own than those of
good align.  And as such, none are more pained by conflict within their own.
In the rare event that a lightwalker destroys their own, they suffer a loss of
memory and confidence, as the Gods of light visit their sorrow upon them.  It's
effects last quite some time, as the God's favor is difficult to regain once it
has been lost.
 
See Also:  ALIGN, GOOD
~

#1034
-1 'ALIAS ADVANCED'~
ALIAS ADVANCED
 
COMMANDS ARGUMENTS
SPECIAL CHARACTERS:
  There are three special characters used inside the alias:
  ";"- seperates commands within an alias
  "$"   - inserts the alias argument
  "%"   - quotes the next character explicitly (if you want to use ; or $ as text)
 
Example 1 (multiple commands):
alias cw cast 'word of recall';where pk
cw
Would execute:
cast 'word of recall'
where pk
 
Example 2 (multiple commands with arguments):
alias cas cast 'armor' $;cast 'shield' $
cas bob
Would execute:
cast 'armor' bob
cast 'shield' bob
 
Example 3 (quoting special characters):
alias ca %;casting armor on $.;cast 'armor' $;
ca bob
Would execute:
;casting armor on $.		//group talk 'casting armor on $'
cast 'armor' bob
 
USING ALIASES IN ALIAS
  You can use an alias in another alias for added functionality.
Example:
alias cw cast 'word of recall'
alias wh where pk
alias escape cw;wh
escape
Would execute:
cast 'word of recall'
where pk
 
See Also: HELP ALIAS
~

#1035
-4 cabal~ RETREAT~
RETREAT (Min 100 cps)
Syntax: flee			: retreat in random direction
	flee <direction>	: retreat in specific direction
 
A Battle is a dangerous dance they say.  Take the wrong step at the
wrong time and it might cost you far more then your toes. Turn your
back upon your partner and you may never see the light of day again.
Those skilled in retreat, are capable of calmly fleeing from battle
taking the most tactically advantageous route.  When retreating, you are
safe from any abilities that capitalize on haphazard fleeing.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER
~

#1036
-4 cabal~ 'ROC CALL' ROCCALL~
ROC CALL
Syntax: roccall
 
Though the exact nature of the pact between the great Rocs and the mortal 
forefathers of Warmasters has long been forgotten. It is a well known
fact that these great birds will respond when called upon by a Warmaster
to carry them to safety and away from danger.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER
~

#1037
-4 cabal~ TRUESIGHT 'TRUE SIGHT'~
TRUE SIGHT
Syntax: truesight
 
After years of combat against Reavers of Nexus the Gladiators called
a gathering of all their own to find a solution to the spells of
invisibility which the Reaver's used so well to their advantage.
Two weeks the wisest and most experienced warriors in Aabahran spent
within the wooden fortress of Warmaster sharing their experiences
and tricks.  Yet when they emerged this pool of knowledge was scribed
and spread to every member of the sect so that all may know how to
recognize the telltale signs of an invisible danger in the area.
 
See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1038
-4 cabal~ STANCE~
STANCE
Syntax: stance
 
The most basic skill of Gladiator yet most important.  This basic
combat stance allows the user to not only escape major portion
of all damage directed at him, but also to enhance their ability
to hit and cause damage.
This skill has no cp cost, but will negate any time based gain of 
cabal points.
 
See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1039
-4 cabal~ MELEE~
MELEE
Syntax: melee

The Gladiator's focus upon single combat has given them unique 
insight into the mechanics of battle.  Using their great experience
they can judge their opponents future moves and spot lucrative
openings for a decisive strike or action.
 
NOTE: This skill requires great freedom of movement.  Any
friendly groupmates in area will greatly hamper it.

See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1040
-4 cabal~ 'CLOSE COMBAT' CLOSECOMEBAT~
CLOSE COMBAT (Min. 400 cps)
Syntax: automatic
 
The hallmark of Gladiators is their training in the arts of
close combat.  Those trained in these skills are capable of
seizing any opportunity two hurt or maim their opponents at
any time they get close enough.  It is active automatically 
when ever the minimum amount of cps is satisfied.

NOTE: This skill requires great freedom of movement.  Any
friendly groupmates in area will render it useless.
See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1041
-4 cabal~ FORMS~
FORMS
Syntax: execute
 
In their pursuit of martial perfection the Warmaster Gladiators
have long ago pulled their collective weapon experience, and
developed specific maneuvers used for each weapon type.  These
forms as they are called can be used in combat to achive
various effects useful in many different situations.
 
See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1042
-4 cabal~ WARMASTER~
Following powers are available to Warmaster:
Initiate      :     none
Grunt         :     Retreat, Pathfinding, Roc Call
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1043
-4 cabal~ GLADIATOR~
Following powers are available to Gladiator:
Grunt		:     Stance, Truesight 
Challenger    :     Close Combat
Gladiator     :     Melee, Forms
Blademaster   :     Sharpen
Warlord/Amazon:     Form Mastery
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1044
-4 cabal~ BARBARIAN~
Following powers are available to Barbarian:
  Savage        :     Trample, Cyclone, Trophy
  Barbarian     :     Maelstrom, Deathblow
  Juggernaut    :     Anger
  Warlord/Amazon:     Adrenaline Rush
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1045
-4 cabal~ TRAMPLE~
TRAMPLE
Syntax: automatic
 
  Never letting an opportunity for a few more blows pass, the Barbarians
are well known for trampling opponents whom have been tripped and remain
on the ground.  This vicious attack is employed only when it would benefit
the Barbarian, and results in a victim stunned according to the size of
the trampler.
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN
~

#1046
-4 cabal~ CYCLONE~
CYCLONE
Syntax: cyclone <victim>
  By sweeping their weapons in great circular arcs with strength bordering
on immortal, the Babarians are capable of hurling massive amounts of dirt
and debris into their opponents.  When followed with a sweeping cut, only 
few of cyclone's victims know what really hit them.  Cyclone may be chained
into Ground Splitter with deathblow.
See also: HELP BARBARIAN, DEATHBLOW
~

#1047
-4 cabal~ MAELSTROM~
MAELSTROM
Syntax: maelstrom <victim>
 
  Named after the multiple uncontroled attacks of those whom employ this
form, its blows focus not only on damage but delivering sheer kinetic
strength.  Its victims are often left bare handed as weapons are flung
out of their hands by the mighty impacts of the blows.  Maelstrom may be
chained into Flesh Stripper with deathblow.
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN, DEATHBLOW
~

#1048
-4 cabal~ deathblow 'death blow'~
DEATHBLOW
Syntax: deathblow
 
  The hallmark skill of Barbarians allows the user to control their
movement, breathing and weapon in such way as to execute manouvers
at speed and strength not normaly possible to mere mortals.  What
particular attack is executed is dependant on previous actions of
the user:
 
None      + Deathblow = Powerstrike
Cyclone   + Deathblow = Ground Splitter
Maelstrom + Deathblow = Flesh Stripper
Cyclone   + Maelstrom = Deathblow      (automatic)
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN, CYCLONE, MAELSTROM
~

#1049
-4 cabal~ trophy~
TROPHY
Syntax: trophy <character>
        trophy <source trophy> <trophy>
 
 Those whom are named Barbarians are not called so without a reason.
It is a custom of these warriors to use a portion of their defeated
opponent's anatomy as a trophy to be worn upon their person.  When
this command is give with a character as an argument it will allow
you to create a trophy.  When you use the trophy command with two
objects as an argument, the first object will be destroyed to 
strengthen the second object.
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN, OWNER ONLY
~

#1050
-1 CHALLENGE~
CHALLENGE
Syntax: challenge <character>
        challenge accept
        challenge decline
 
The challenge command allows a Warmaster to challenge a player of
their choice, or a player to challenge a Warmaster of their choice.
Once a challenge is given, the challenged party may accept or refuse
it.  If accepted the challenging party may not begin combat for 5 hours,
and the combat between these two players will not be carried through
to a killing blow. (Much like using "mercy" command)
 
Challenge in case of a Warmaster is unique as it is the primary means 
of judging their ability to progress through Warmaster's ranks.  Any
challenge which is carried through to the end (win or loss) counts
towards the Warmaster's promotion in the cabal.  Any decline of a
challenge counts against it.  Quitting or otherwise avoiding an 
accepted challenge also counts against promotion.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER, RECORD, DEATHMARK
~

#1051
-1 DMARK DEATHMARK 'DEATH MARK'~
DEATHMARK
Syntax: dmark <character>
 
Deathmark's effects are exactly as those of a challenge, however it
can only be used by Warmasters and cannot be declined.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER, RECORD, CHALLENGE
~

#1052
-1 RECORD~
RECORD
Syntax: record <character>
 
This command will allow you to view a particular Warmaster's combat
records.  Particulary famous Warmasters will have their records kept
past their eventual demise for all eternity.
 
See also: HELP WARMASTER, CHALLENGE, DEATH MARK
~

#1053
-4 cabal~ SPY~
SPY
Syntax: spy <character>
  Using their underground networks, the Syndicate (for a price) are
privy to every piece of information that flows between any significant
organization.  Using these networks to your advantage can have 
catastrophic results for anyone whom you choose to disadvantage.
 
See also: HELP SYNDICATE
~

#1054
-4 cabal~ GREENHEART~
GREENHEART
Syntaxcast 'greenheart'
 
Those whom would serve nature in turn serve themselves.  This ability calls
on the natural forces of Aabahran to aid the Stalker in their battles against
the Undead, Demonic or Avatar opponents.  While under effects of this spell
the user will take less and cause more damage to non neutral targets.
 
See Also: HELP STALKER
~

#1055
-4 cabal~ SHARPEN~
SHARPEN
Syntax:sharpen <weapon>
 
  Using their battle exprience, the Gladiators have been known to apply
modify their weapons to further sharpen and balance them for better use
in battle.  Thus modified blades have often been known to match in their
quality their magical counterparts.
 
 
See also: HELP GLADIATOR
~

#1056
-4 cabal~ ANGER~
ANGER
Syntax: Anger
 
  Harnessing the power of fury and bloodlust has been the objective
of countless warriors of Aabahran.  However few of them outside the
guild of Berserkers have ever come close.  Those whom unleash the
torrents of fury through anger, come close to a rage like state 
attacking anyone and everyone whom the spot entering into the area.
However unlike raged berserkers, they do not deal any extra damage
nor are they blocked from fleeing the combat.
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN
~

#1057
-4 cabal~ 'FORM MASTERY' 'FORMS MASTERY'~
FORM MASTERY
Syntax: execute: execute primary weapon form
execute sec: execute secondary weapon form
 
  Those Gladiators whom ascend to the rank of Leader of Warmaster
are known to hold such mastery of combat that they are capable of
executing their forms from either primary of dual wielded weapon.
 
See also: HELP GLADIATOR, FORMS
~

#1058
-4 cabal~ 'ADRENALINE RUSH'~
ADRENALINE RUSH (Min 500 cps)
Syntax:automatic
 
  Those Barbarians whom ascend to the rank of Leader of Warmaster
are known to simply refuse to be cut down in combat.  Tales exist
of these beastly warriors killing their would be victors in a 
vicious fits of rage before collapsing from their no longer fatal
wounds.
 
See also: HELP BARBARIAN
~

#1059
-1 'CONTINUAL LIGHT'~
CONTINUAL LIGHT
 
A conjuration known only to a select few classes, this basic enchantment
will conjure a ball of shimmering light, inextinguishable by any means known
save desctruction.  This ball of light will illuminate the wearer's
surroundings much as a torch would, while emitting no heat, and never
burning out. 
~

#1060
-1 Hero Heroes~
HERO HEROES
 
Every so often a mortal man or woman ascends to the next inevitable level
proceeding their mortal life.  Usually selected as the mortal leader of
their guild, they are often considered Immortals.  But in truth, they retain
much of their original mortality.  Though they are strong indeed, they are
still able to be slain.
 
Because of their legendary status, these HEROES are forbidden to slay
lesser denizens of Aabahran, but may aid them in ranking, gathering equipment,
and the like.  In their wisdom, the True Gods of Aabahran have also decreed
that no HERO may wear any rare or unique item, leaving them for mortals who
need their power.
 
Only one potential mortal from each guild will be selected.  If you feel
you have surpassed your peers, and have achieved the 50th level of your
guild, scribe an application to immortal detailing your desire.  
 
SEE ALSO:  IMMORTAL, RARE, UNIQUE
~

#1061
-4 cabal~ herald~
Following powers are available to Herald:
  Initiate      :     Diplomacy
  Squire        :     Scrolls/Staves/Wands
  Scholar       :     Recharge/Overload
  Herald        :     Create Artifact/Invoke Artifact
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1062
-4 cabal~ recharge~
RECHARGE
Syntax:  cast 'recharge' <item>
 
Through extensive training and practice, Heralds are able to focus
magical energies into objects such as wands and staves, and recharge items
that would have otherwise been depleted of charges.  This ability fully
recharges such items, but at a cost.  Each time an item is recharged, the
maximum number of charges the item can possess is reduced by one.  This
ability will also function upon artifacts, improving their condition and
lengthening their life.
~

#1063
-4 cabal~ Overload~
OVERLOAD
Syntax:  cast 'overload' <item>
 
As being the case with most portable items of power, wands and staves can
only function a limited amount of time before becoming useless.  Heralds,
with their knowledge of such things have learned to manipulate such items
and unleash their true potential.  Through the use of this ability, Heralds
may increase the maximum amount of charges an item is capable of possessing.
When this is used upon an object the maximum charges of that object are
increased by 50%.  However due to the extreme stress placed upon the item,
this ability can only be used once upon any given object.
~

#1064
-4 cabal~ 'create artifact'~
CREATE ARTIFACT
Syntax:  cast 'create artifact' <item>
 
Being masters of history, Heralds are able to discover items that have
long held hidden powers.  Through careful manipulation and study, Heralds
are able to unleash those powers.  By casting this enchantment upon an a
relic, a Herald can cause the relic to 'remember' it's past and create a
powerful artifact brimming with the power of the ancients.
~

#1065
-4 cabal~ 'invoke artifact'~
INVOKE ARTIFACT
Syntax:  invoke <item>
 
Once a relic has been transformed into an artifact, a Herald can brandish
said relic and unleash it's power.  The type of relic comes into play in
determining the nature of the artifact's magic, and each artifact can only
be invoked a certain number of times before the item crumbles and becomes
nothing but inert dust.
~

#1066
-1 sing~
SING
Syntax: sing <song> <target>
 
Before you can sing a song, you have to rehearse it.  The more you practice,
the higher chance you have of success when casting.  Singing a song costs
mana.  The mana cost decreases as your level increases.
 
The <target> is optional.  Many songs which need targets will use an
appropriate default target, especially during combat.
 
If the song name is more than one word, then you must quote the song name.
Example: sing 'Rest Thy Feet'
Quoting is optional for single-word songs.  You can abbreviate the song name.
 
When you sing an offensive song, the victim usually gets a saving throw.
The effect of the song is reduced or eliminated if the victim makes the
saving throw successfully.  Singing an offensive spell on yourself will
result in memory impairment for you to sing that song in the future lowering
your skill in the song.
 
You are also able to freeverse your own songs.  Singing freeverse allows
you to make up your own songs, and 'sing' them free of a mana charge.
 
Syntax:  sing freeverse <lyrics>
For example; if you input, 'sing freeverse Days of summer are long and hot.'
You will see this:  You sing '`6Days of summer are long and hot.``'  Now keep in
mind that this command, like any other can and will be taken away if used in
an inappropriate manner.
 
See also the help sections for individual songs.
~

#1067
-1 none~
~

#1068
-1 none~
~

#1069
-1 Taunt~
TAUNT
Syntax: taunt
 
Bards are able to use their skill with words to taunt their opponent in
while fighting.  Such taunts can intimidate their opponents, causing
them to fight less effectively.  However, the taunts have been known
to backfire, angering the opponent into a frenzy.
~

#1070
-2 ninja~ 'DEATH KISS'~
Death Kiss
Syntax:Automatic
 
  Those ninjas skilled in this art, take a more logical and precise approach
when freeing their chosen targets of the mortal coil.  As a result, when faced
with an inert sleeping victim they are able to verify their studies and abort
an unsuccessful assassination if required.
 
See also: NINJITSU, STUDY, ASSASSINATE
~

#1071
-2 ninja~ 'FALCON EYE'~
Falcon Eye
Syntax: Automatic
 
  There are those within the guild of ninjas that after years of studying
every sort of creature about them have honed this art to such degree that
they even become capable of discovering weaknesses in a perfect crystal.
Those whom posses this skill will find they learn more about their victims
in each study session and do it faster.
 
See also: NINJITSU, STUDY, ASSASSINATE
~

#1072
-4 cabal~ SCRIBE~
SCRIBE
Syntax:scribe <new/clear/title/text/subject>
 
 The ability of scribe will allow you to create written works to be
included in Library of Aabahran for others to read an enjoy.
 
New:		  Used to begin a new tome
Clear:	  Used to destroy all work on current tome
Title:	  Used to title the Tome
Text:		  Used to enter text editor ("HELP EDITOR")
Send <subject>: Creates a tome under given subject
Send <subject#>:Creates a tome under given subject number
 
See Also: HELP HERALD, TOME, PRINT
~

#1073
51 SCRIBE~
Immortals have access to additional SCRIBE commands:
scribe edit <#> <#> : Edit a give tome
scribe del <#> <#> : Remove a given tome
~

#1074
-1 TOME LIBRARY~
TOME LIBRARY
Syntax: tome	       Show index of all work in library
tome <subject #>     Show index of works under given subject
tome <subj#> <tome#> Read a given tome
 
The Libraries Of Aabahran house literary works of mortals and Immortals
alike and make them available for reading and printing. To see the index 
of subjects currently available simply use "tome".
To see the listings of works under a given subject use "tome <subject #>"
You may read a specific Tome while in the library or Herald cabal by
using "tome <subject #> <tome #>.
 
NOTE:  Heralds may read any tome at any given time.
 
See also: HELP PRINT
~

#1075
-1 PRINT~
PRINT
Syntax: print <subject #> <tome #>
 
While present in one of the Aabahran Libraries one may request for
a Tome to be copied and printed for personal use.  For a small sum
of gold, the work may be then enjoyed at ones leisure.
 
See also: HELP TOME
~

#1076
-4 cabal~ ACT~
ACT
Syntax:act <message>
 
This simple skill allows you to echo any text to those present in
the room with you.  
 
See also: HELP HERALD
~

#1077
-1 Endrios~
Not much is known of this winged man clad in the purest of golden armors. What
is known, is that he was rescued from the crimson depths of the Nexus Realm by
the giant Ghorn, and entered the World of Aabahran as another Immortal. He has
claimed that he was born of another World, unknown to this one, where he looked
over his people as a High Guardian. This distant World eventually surrendered to
the terrors of the Demon race, its entire mortal population meeting extinction.
Endrios was not killed, but was instead taken prisoner inside the Demon Rift and
was held there for over a century. 
 
His handsome features and typically calm demeanor are not to be misinterpreted 
for signs of weakness. It is widely rumored that on top of Endrios' Immortal 
strength, his blinding speed is unequalled even among the other Gods of 
Aabahran. He is very often characterized as a friendly and talkative man, but 
quick to anger at times with those that would seek to ridicule or disrespect 
him or other followers of the Light. It is now believed that Endrios lives only 
for Purity, and the closest of circles often whisper that he seeks to avenge 
the loss of the family that he failed to protect in the past. Despite his warm 
nature, many of the more cynical quarters argue that this man is not truly what 
he claims to be.
~

#1078
-1 'boulder throw'~
BOULDER THROW
Syntax: boulder <name>
 
Due to their size and natural habitat, stone giants are naturally skilled
at using boulders and stones as improvised missile weapons.  Useable only in
certain types of terrain, these attacks, if successful, disorient the target
for a short period of time, rendering him unable to accurately discern
direction as well as taking a substantial amount of damage.  
 
See Also: GIANT, STONE
~

#1079
-1 'reuse me'~
~

#1080
-1 'reuse me'~
~

#1081
-5 ~ 'reuse me'~
~

#1082
-1 'Battle Royale'~
BATTLE ROYALE
 
 
General Rules: 
1) You will NOT kill anyone. 
2) You will NOT steal from anyone. 
3) You will NOT take anyones disarmed weapon. 
4) You will NOT take anything that was not yours upon entrance
5) You will NOT use any ability that may destroy anothers equipment. 
6) Bards may NOT sing Lust Seduction Desire. 
 
 
Once placed in a room of the Arena, you will STAY PUT until the God
announces the battle to begin.  The battle ends when only ONE mortal remains
in the Arena.  
You may only use abilities that a group member can provide.  Hence, if no
one in your team is able to cast/commune sanctuary, you may not use vials. 
Similarly, gyvel/red potions may not be used.  
See also HELP: ONE ON ONE DUELS, TEAM BATTLES 
~

#1083
-1 'one on one duels'~
ONE ON ONE DUELS
 
 
 
One on One Duels: One person will be chosen by the God in charge (usually
Mhalador).  This person will be allowed to challenge someone else of his
choosing.  Other than their light, weapon, and cursed items, all other
pieces of equipment must be removed.  Sanctuary shall be given to both
participants at the start of the duel.                                                            
No abilities that affect more than one person may be used.  This includes
iceball, fireball, firestorm, icestorm, hurricane, and earthquake.  
 
 
See also HELP: BATTLE ROYALE, TEAM BATTLES
~

#1084
-1 'team battles'~
TEAM BATTLES

 

Teams will be picked by the God in charge (usually Mhalador).  Your desires
to be partnered with someone else may be expressed in a polite manner
whether or not the God wishes to hear go through with your wishes is his/her
choice.  Teams may NOT work with other teams to defeat a third party.  

 
 
See also HELP: BATTLE ROYALE, ONE ON ONE DUELS
~

#1085
-1 Arithis~
Once long ago there was a duergar boy born into the normal world of many
duergar boys.  As he grew he came to know that he had a talent for death and
how he longed for the yearning of it.  He went on in life to study these
ways with many, many corpses and was mainly shunned by his community.  He
was finally exiled from his hometown of Gal'Rhanidon after he took the
corpses of his own parents and tore them to pieces trying to figure out how
to make the perfect human.  
 
After many long years of solitude and lonliness Arithis emerged again and
was welcomed back into the world as a normal person since many of the elders
of the community had died and forgot him.  When he returned to Gal'Rhanidon
he noticed much had changed and decided to make his way to the surface,
since of course he had found a way to adapt his body to the sunlight.  When
Arithis arrived on the surface he found that much was different from what he
thought.
 
Arithis, after many years of wondering the surface, then came upon a
gigantic black fortress that was twisted and crippled by time.  The sheer
size of this tower is unexplainable and it seemed to phase from realm to
realm, never being truly whole.  Inside this fortress he found a great demon
that took him as his apprentice and taught him all that he knows today.  As
his final act to his master Arithis took his life and drained the blood of
the demon heart into a mixture he had concocted from his knowledge in hopes
of gaining Immortality.  With one final gasp after drinking the cup mixed
with solution he fell dead upon the floor.
 
Not long after this Arithis awoke to find himself in a spectral sort of
world where he could travel and do as he pleased and so he stayed on Aabahran
and began his studies anew. 
~

#1086
-1 peikloz~
His parents were forced away from the avian race, so Peikloz Troy was
born in Rheydin where he would live for the rest of his mortal life.  His
blood, both avian and human, was unacceptable to many.  He swore not to
become like those that hated him, and to instead live with as much tolerance
for others as possible.
 
As a child he found himself to have strong connection with books.  As he
couldn't bear to leave any unread, he would stay up late every night, simply
reading..  Eventually he became a scholar where he was constantly tormented
by those who could not understand this obsession, but he never let their
words get to him.  Instead he became stronger in his beliefs.  His
dedication for studying increased and days did not go by when he didn't
visit the library.  Once he graduated from the school he joined the invoker
guild.  There, he quickly ascended within the ranks of his guild and it didn't
take long until he had reached his pinnacle.
 
He made connections with many that held the same interests and beliefs that he
did.  Even though he wished to join the Savants, the time never came.  Instead,
his dedication was focused towards the Academy which he joined soon after its
construction.  There, he was recognized for his dedication to the education
of others and eventually was named the Dean.  Soon, the time came when his
knowledge had reached a point beyond the potential of most mortals and was
named Hero of the Invoker Guild.
 
Yet, his curiosity still grew, and allowed him to solve many mysteries. 
He eventually came across rumours that spoke of granting a worthy Mortal the
gift of Immortality.  The rumours spoke of a well that only he could find
thanks to the supreme knowledge that he had acquired in his lifetime.  Some
say that Peikloz took a sample of this precious water for his own quest for
knowledge and, using his hightened arcane powers, destroyed the well itself,
preventing all others from claiming his prize. 
~

#1087
-1 'reuse me'~
~

#1088
-1 Sylvantis~
The origin of the Colossus Sylvantis is a mystery.  Even, they say to the
heavens themselves.  His history is that of lore originated by a means all
the more mysterious.  Ancient tablets from a time long forgotten were said
to have been chiseled by a non-descript beggar overcome by a trance.  On the
vernal equinox when night and day held equal sway the illiterate beggar had
finished his work and stood at central square.  He recited that which he
wrote.  Its said that when finished he snapped from his trance, dropped the
stones and wandered off without a word.  Most ignored the rantings and the
shattered stones dropped by a mad man, but some had listened.  The story
today has many versions, some more outrageous than others. 
  
Its said the Colossus was a mandate from a higher power to elucidate the
bickering masses of both mortal and immortal disagreements; An objective
arbitrator and divine judge of all things.  Its said that neither the nature
of the disagreement nor the severity of it sways his judgment.  For the
Colossus to achieve such objectivity the powers that wrought his existence
made his essence mortal.  He was reborn under many names over thousands of
years.  Each time, he worshiped a different religion.  Each time, he
embraced a different philosophy of life.  Its rumored that both the
benevolent and evil Gods searched relentlessly for this eventual divine
judge of the heavens; Some to influence him others who claimed to protect
him from the former.  In the end, In his last mortal form Sylvantis, the
Colossus had a revelation.  Its said all of his lifetimes flooded back to
his consciousness, his fate became known to him and he rose to his destined
place in the heavens.  To this day Sylvantis holds favor to his last mortal
life and stands besides the forces of benevolence and good.  However, when
asked to judge the Colossus holds no favor and is the essence of
objectivity.  His decisions are final and to question his judgement is to
invite his anger.  Anger thats fed by the darkest and most vile experiences
lived over a thousand lifetimes. 
~

#1089
-1 Luqin~
Born a mortal, raised a disciple of the virtues, ascended as a mystery. 
Thus describes the one known today as Luqin of the Enigmatic Light.  Luqin
displays the very ideals of compassion even through the many mysteries that
shroud his past, and future.  Soon after his ascension, Luqin awoke in a
shroud of pure energy, without memory, without identity.  All that was known
was that he was different, in many ways.  The voices of Aabahran were heard,
the thoughts, the prayers, the hopes, and the dreams.  Time was lost, and
space was obsolete.  All that remained was existence.
 
As his existence progressed, new powers and old memories alike were
discovered, though never to this day has the entire truth been uncovered. 
However, through the help of many mortal men and women, Luqin found the
compassion of his previous life, and using his new powers, Luqin was able to
exemplify this very virtue of compassion to the mortal world, in hopes of
one day calming the ever present tide of darkness on Aabahran's surface.  Was
this the meaning of his ascension?  Or was it merely another plot of
darkness that has gone awry?  Perhaps one day these mysteries will be
discovered, until then, the only truth that needs to remain is that of
compassion and hope for all living mortal beings, and the existence of Luqin
shall be ever living, projected into the minds of those willing.
~

#1090
-1 vuurk~
In the time following Sirant's fall, the universe was in turmoil.  Most
went unnoticed by mortal eye, but the balance in the heaven was gone.  A
mortal warrior, Vuurk, sat in meditation near a waterfall in the Orc
Mountains as the energy swept through him.  Perhaps he was in the right
place at the right time.  Perhaps this was the reason for his birth.  In any
case, the energy lingered within the storm giant changing him. 
 
With the strength of his arm, his will, and his faith, Vuurk became the
patron saint of the Knights.  And he guides them and any who would seek he
guidance into battle against the demons and any who would harm an innocent.
~

#1091
-1 arther~
There was a day not long ago that the energy from every scream and cry
from a lawful citizen was channeled to the same place, a pocket in the
heavens that consumed and grew with each passing day.  With the building of
the energy and the room finaly reaching its capacity everything within began
to merge and form into a single entity, the entity named itself Arther. 
With a single tear crawling down his left cheek he placed a vow to all the
lawful citizens within Aabahran, the room in which Arther was formed will not
gather thier cries anymore.  The energies will be channeled into Arther
himself as he is the one who only grows stronger to fight the cause in which
is his very existance.  As long as there is crime within Aabahran, Lord Arther
will exist to fight and destroy it, even at this very moment Arther is
recruiting the mighty blades of the lands, they will watch over the cities
in his name and the way of Law.  
~

#1092
-1 thoclya~
Of vague and mysterious origins, Thoclya rose to her current position of
power.  Rumored to have once been mortal, her physical form most resembles
the Duergar.  Regardless of her origins, it is widely accepted that Thoclya
rose to her station through pure force of will.  That will, born through her
own mental and spiritual powers, drives her influence throughout the realms.
She has the unique ability to commune power from her spiritual self to
amplify her physical self.  It is known that Thoclya is widely versed in
almost any topic, logical or philosophical.
 
 Although Thoclya constantly seeks to spread her influence throughout the
mortal world, it is not known whether she is an independent power, or if she
serves some greater force.  She is extremely expansionistic, although she is
also determined to keep herself shadowed in mystery and deception.  These
virtues have made her widely known as an ironic and inherently chaotic
Goddess.  Her tendancy to dabble in illusion and demonology have also made
her widely distrusted throughout the mortal realms.
~

#1093
-2 psionicist~ 'MIND BLAST'~
MIND BLAST		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'mind blast' <victim>
 
 The most powerful damage spell in common Psionicist arsenal, mind blast
directs a stream of destructive mental energies into the victim's mind.  
The resulting mental anguish is equally damaging to flesh and mind regardless 
of save against this spell.
 
See Also: Help MIND THRUST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND DISRUPTON
~

#1094
-2 psionicist~ 'MIND DISRUPTION'~
MIND DISRUPTION		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'mind disruption' <victim>
 
 A staple damage spell which not only causes powerful anguish to
any mind it is directed at, but also makes concentration and 
spell casting progressively more difficult with each unsuccessful
save against this spell.
 
See Also: Help MIND THRUST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND BLAST
~

#1095
-2 psionicist~ 'FLESH ARMOR'~
FLESH ARMOR
 
Syntax: cast 'flesh armor'
By adjusting their epidermal cells, psionicists can harden their 
skin allowing them to deflect away more damage.
~

#1096
-2 psionicist~ 'DETECT AURA'~
DETECT AURA
Syntax: cast 'detect aura'
 
The already sensitive mind of a psionicst can be further tuned
to detect various properties of the world about them.  Using this
simple spell the caster can detect good, evil, invisible and
magical auras.
~

#1097
-2 psionicist~ 'METABOLIC BRAKE'~
METABOLIC BRAKE
Syntax: cast 'metabolic brake'
 
Using their mental powers the psionicsts are able to slow down
their natural metabolic rate.  Though this results in slower and
more difficult movement. The body and mind in this state are capable 
of much faster regeneration and can partially ignore effects of 
toxins.
 
See Also: HELP METABOLIC BOOST
~

#1098
-2 psionicist~ 'REMOVE MAGIC'~
REMOVE MAGIC              AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'remove magic' <victim>
 
  This spell is a super charged version of the normal dispel magic
and affects anyone grouped with the victim of the spell.  Once cast
the remove magic spell will attempt to dispel spells on the 
victim and any of his group mates.
 
 
See also: HELP DISPEL MAGIC
~

#1099
-2 psionicist~ 'MAGIC EYE'~
MAGIC EYE
Syntax: cast 'magic eye'
 
  The spell summons a large floating eye with ability to flawlessly
camouflage itself into the environment.  This magical eye will then
report any activity in its immediate area, as well as any threats
to the cast that are present nearby.
~

#1100
-2 psionicist~ WISH~
WISH
Syntax: cast 'wish'
 
  By reaching out with their minds out into the higher realms of
consciousness, a psioncist may make contact with a benign force and
wish for limited aid in his or her cause.  Beware however, though
a slightest slip in control can twist the wish into a conduit of
suffering and harm.
~

#1101
-2 psionicist~ 'METABOLIC BOOST'~
METABOLIC BOOST
Syntax: cast 'metabolic boost'
 
Using their mental powers the psionicsts are able to speed up
their natural metabolic rate.  Thus accellerated they are able
to fight and travel much faster then usual.
 
 
See Also: HELP METABOLIC BRAKE
~

#1102
-2 psionicist~ 'GRAFT WEAPON'~
GRAFT WEAPON
Syntax: cast 'graft weapon'
 
  With slight manipulation of their hands and the weapon they 
wield, the caster of this spell can physically join the weapon
and his hands into a single shape.  Once cast the weapon 
cannot be removed by any means until the spell expires or
is cancelled.
~

#1103
-2 psionicist~ 'PSI AMP'~
PSI AMP
Syntax: Automatic
 
 When under effect of the amplifier the psionicst's offensive
spells have the ability to totally ignore their victim's magical
resistance and thus prevent any save versus spell roll.
 Each offensive spell which is affected by the psi amp contains
a power rating in its help scrolls.  The spell may be rated at
one of three levels: WEAK, MEDIUM, STRONG.
 
WEAK  : Save vs Spell denied if saves are weak or non-existent
MEDIUM: Save vs Spell denied even if saves are of average amount
STRONG: Save vs Spell denied against all but most protected opponents
 
NOTE:  Magical or Mental resistance will decrease the amplification
power by one level.  Hence STRONG amplification against a resistant
opponent will be treated as MEDIUM.  Mental vulnerability has an
opposite effect.
~

#1104
-2 psionicist~ SUBVOCALIZE~
SUBVOCALIZE
Syntax: cast 'subvocalize'
 
  Though psionic spells are mental in nature and draw their power 
from the formidable minds of their casters, a psionicst under normal
condition still requires specific incarnations to focus and control
the powers of his or her mind.  This spell once cast aids this ritual
of concentration and focus and allows the caster to complete their
spells without any vocal component.
~

#1105
-2 psionicist~ 'PSI FOCUS'~
PSI FOCUS
  A member of Psionicist guild once experienced must make a crucial choice
in his or her studies and focus on a particular area in which the growing
powers of his mind will be applied.
 
  Kinesis  : Creation of various elemental and physical effects
  Telepathy: Study of mind, mental communication and dreams
  Illusion : Creation of false perceptions and deadly illusions
 
See also: HELP PSI LORE
~

#1106
-2 psionicist~ 'PSI LORE'~
PSI LORE
  An experienced Psionicist draws on the choice of his focus and further
develops his or her powers by prolonged study of one of the following
disciplines:
 
  Kinesis  ->Destruction
  Telepathy->Domination
  Illusion ->Alteration
 
 
See also: HELP PSI FOCUS
~

#1107
-2 psionicist~ KINESIS~
KINESIS
Syntax: automatic
 
  Those Psioncists whom wish to dwell on more destructive and flashy uses
of their minds may focus their studies on mysteries of this skill.  
The following spells depend on arts of Kinesis:
 
  Pyro Kinesis
  Cryo Kinesis
  Hydro Kinesis
  Electro Kinesis
  Tele Kinesis
  Photon Blast
  Psionic Blast
  Psychic Purge
  Mindsurge
 
See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, DESTRUCTION
~

#1108
-2 psionicist~ DESTRUCTION~
DESTRUCTION
  The culmination the path first begun by focusing on Kinesis, the
Psionist Lore of Destruction allows the pupil to call forth powers
of unimaginable destruction.
The following spells depend on arts of Destruction:
 
  Singularity
  Amorphous Infection
  Entropic Touch
  Breach
  Disintegrate
 
See also: HELP PSI LORE, KINESIS
~

#1109
-2 psionicist~ 'PYRO KINESIS' 'CRYO KINESIS' 'HYDRO KINESIS' 'ELECTRO KINESIS' 'TELE KINESIS' PYRO CRYO HYDRO ELECTRO TELE~
PRYO KINESIS, CRYO KINESIS, HYDRO KINESIS, ELECTRO KINESIS, TELE KINESIS
AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'pyro    kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'cryo    kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'hydro   kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'electro kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'tele    kinesis' <victim>
 
These spells use the mental powers of kinesis to generate basic elemental
energies and bind them around the victim.  Once cast the effect will continue
to damage its victim as long as the caster is present in near proximity..
The initial duration of the kinesis field is quite short, however it can
be further charged by re-casting the spell on the victim.

Each of the kinesis spells uses its element as is damage agent with telekinesis
using mental forces to control air in offensive fashion.

 
See also: KINESIS
~

#1110
-2 psionicist~ 'PHOTON BLAST'~
PHOTON BLAST             AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'photon blast' <victim>
 
  By concentrating a stream of photons in a directed beam the caster
can create a powerful blast of light based energy.  This photon blast
is not only powerful enough to pierce through full plate of armor, but
due to its nature is particularly deadly to undead and can leave them
drained of all vitality.
 
See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#1111
-2 psionicist~ 'PSYCHIC PURGE'~
PSYCHIC PURGE           AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'psychic purge' <victim>
 
  A skilled Psionicist may take advantage of a momentary weakness in
his opponents mental defenses, and with a sudden strike of mental power
partially purge them.  The affected victim for the duration of the
spell will be partially vulnerable to any mental damage.
 
See Also: HELP KINESIS
~

#1112
-2 psionicist~ 'MINDSURGE'~
MINDSURGE
Syntax: cast 'mindsurge'
 
  By short-circuiting the pain centers of their psyche and tapping 
hidden reservoirs of power inside their minds, psionicists are capable
of temporarily boosting the raw power of their spells.  While under
the effects of mindsurge, all Psionic damage spells will do maximum
possible damage (subject to save vs spell).
 
See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#1113
-2 psionicist~ 'PSIONIC BLAST'~
PSIONIC BLAST          AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'Psionic blast'
 
  Unlike most of the psionic mental damage spells which relay on 
delicate and skilful manipulation of victim's brain.  This spell
is the epitome of brute mental force.  By storing mental forces
in his own mind until they burst like a dam, the caster releases
a fearsome blast of psionic energy all around him.  Anyone unlucky
to be hit by this tidal wave of pain may become paralyzed for
extended amount of time.
 
See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#1114
-2 psionicist~ SINGULARITY~
SINGULARITY          AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'singularity'
 
  In demonstration of the finality of mind's power, a Psionicist
may use this spell to temporarily bend the fabric of space unto
itself and create a miniature singularity: A wormhole.
Those failing a saving throw against this spell are affected 
by the vicious effects this has on gravity, and will find themselves 
contemplating the true meaning of the phrase 'gravity sucks'.
 
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#1115
-2 psionicist~ 'ENTROPIC TOUCH'~
ENTROPIC TOUCH       AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'Entropic touch' <victim>
 
  When this spell is cast a field of pure entropy surrounds the caster's 
palm.  If the caster manages to make contact against the victim's armor
the field will instantaneously surround it.  The affected armors are then
rendered totally useless until the entropic field dissipates.
 
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#1116
-2 psionicist~ 'AMORPHOUS INFECTION'~
AMORPHOUS INFECTION  AMPLIFICATION: SPECIAL
Syntax: cast 'amorphous infection' victim
 
  Psionicists can pull amorphous creatures from other planes into our own, with 
only a tiny adjustment to the atoms in the air. In this case, an amorphous form 
of perhaps one centimeter by one centimeter will be pulled through, and it will 
instantly attack the victim. Each hour it remains on its host it will become more 
powerful, and deal a small bit more damage to them. When its host becomes close to 
death, it will attach itself to the nearest healthiest creature around. The only 
way for these shapeless beings to be extinguished is for someone to weaken with 
no-one near them.

*NOTE:  This spell normaly counts as WEAK amplification except against unnatural
or summoned begins including undead, demons and avatars.  Against such beings
the spell counts as STRONG.
 
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#1117
-2 psionicist~ BREACH~
BREACH
Syntax: cast 'breach' <victim>
 
  When cast, this spell creates and contains a small fission reaction in 
a tunnel of about hair's width directed at the victim.  The force resulting 
from this directed containment is of such magnitude that it will overpower
and without chance to save remove all PROTECTIVE enchantments on the victim.
 
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#1118
-2 psionicist~ DISINTEGRATE~
DISINTEGRATE
Syntax: cast 'disintegrate' <victim>
 
  Though many beneficial psionic spells depend on directed re-organization
of molecular structure, only this dreaded spell has ever been constructed
with the precise goal of using this ability against living things.  When
cast the Psionicsts for the shortest of instants removes cohesion between
molecules of its target lowering its hit points by 25% without a chance to
save.  If the victim lacks the fortitude to further resist the disintegration
they will potentially suffer massive damage to their constitution for an 
extended amount of time.
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#1119
-1 MEMORIZE FORGET~
MEMORIZE FORGET
Syntax: memorize
        memorize <spell>
        memorize <spell set>
        forget <spell>
        forget <all>
 
  In order for a spell to be cast you must first choose to store it in
your memory so it may be memorized upon meditation.  Similarly if you
decided that a particular spell serves no more use to you, or another
spell is more important.  You may forget it in order for it to be replaced.

You are provided with number of spell sets to switch between at will.  Use
"memorize <number>" to select a given set.  From there on all other 
memorize and forget commands will apply to that particular spell set.
 
See also: MEMORY SPELLS, PSI CIRCLES
~

#1120
-1 'MEMORY SPELLS'~
MEMORY SPELLS
 
  Though majority of classes in Forsaken Lands require no memorization of spells
(they can cast any number of spells as long as mana is available), there are certain 
classes which use this system of spell casting.  In this system, a spell must be
first meditated upon before it can be cast by its user.  The commands "memorize"
and "forget" are used to select which spells of various power you wish to memorize
during your meditation.  Once you are satisfied with your choice, meditate until
all of the spells are memorized.
 
See also: HELP MEMORIZE, FORGET, PSI CIRCLES
~

#1121
-1 PSIONICIST PSIONICISTS PSI PSIONICS~
PSIONICIST PSIONICISTS PSI PSIONICS
 
The history of the Psi can be traced to one diminutive Gnome by the
name of Snivelis Bentgear. Blessed with a remarkable intellect he
quickly ascended to the highest ranks of Invokers. He was renowned 
for his work on Mana charge theory and his lectures as Dean of the
Academy on the finer aspects of dispelling. Life for professor 
Bentgear was going as he had precisely planned, until the jealousy of 
colleagues lined the pockets of Syndicate. Snivelis was captured and
delivered to the deepest bowels of the Underdark. His Illithid captors 
exploited his open mind to enslave him into a simple verbal interpreter 
to the slave pens of the Hive and the army of Duergar they favored. 
 
After a time Snivelis began to dissect the manner in which he was 
manipulated. He could sense, if not see the waves of telepathy as they 
manipulated various areas of his brain. The nuance of a simple caress to 
the frontal lobe to invoke movement, the pin prick to the back for 
blinding pain.  Soon he realized how much potential there was for 
greater manipulation of not just others, but of the inanimate as well; the 
elements, the molecular structure of flesh and more. In a procedure 
only known to the great masters of the Psionicist guild, Snivelis 
sacrificed that part of him that held Mystic energy and in so doing 
strengthened his mind to heights no other in Aabaharn have ever 
known. Thus was Snivelis freed, and thus was the guild of Psionicist 
born.
 
To be accepted into the secret society of the Psionist one must be of 
superior intellect and unquestioned masters of their current magical 
craft. The Psi manipulates mana by drawing their power from their own 
mind rather than magical incantations from the Mystic energy around 
them. By doing so they are capable of the most powerful feats of 
magic ever seen. However, when performed such abilities are lost until 
properly meditated into memory once more. Meditation is the lifeblood 
of the Psi and their most coveted of rituals, a time when the mind is at 
peace and released from all existing spell maintenance. The particular 
abilities of the Psi are secretive and mysterious. Yet it is rumored that 
the  Psi can specialize their focus on melee, mental or destructive circles
of study.    
 
See also: HELP PSIONICIST REQUIREMENTS
~

#1122
-2 psionicist~ PSIONICIST PSIONICISTS PSI PSIONICS~
See also: HELP MEMORIZE, PSI CIRCLE, MEDITATE
~

#1123
-1 watcher~
WATCHER
 
For eons people of all races joined together in a common cause, a common
need, to form great cities to protect themselves from their neighbors and to
allow them to share the burden of lifes toils.  As more sprang and spread
the scars left by their building tore through the lands, making them
uninhabitable.  It was then that the god of nature appeared and told of what
was being done, and instructed those that dwelt in the cities to stop what
they had begun, and to restore what had been torn asunder.  But the people
were a vain and pompous lot, and had taken crowns and titles and made laws
that they felt justified their actions, even in the face of the words of a
god.  They did not heed his words, and so he left them with anger burning
inside him.
 
Then did the gods of death conspire against nature.
 
With the rebirth of the god Virigoth legions of undead rose from the
tombs and crypts to feed on the people of the lands, from a rift in time and
space came the Chaos Demons, reveling in the terror and suffering they
brought with them.  Then did the gods of death put their taint upon the
living, making them twisted, a perverted shadow of their former self.  They
were given eternal life, but at a price.  Called Vampires, they would
forever feed upon the blood of the people in the lands. 
 
And then the gods of light twisted their own.
 
They called their greatest followers to them and changed them, made them
a part of the Light itself, forsaking their spirits and bodies, they became
the nemesis of darkness, but they had paid a price in doing so, for they
were no longer what nature had made them to be. 
 
With each touch of their tainted forms the lands themselves cried out in
pain, deafening and torturing the god of nature.  And so it was that he
called to him his most loyal and hardy followers to combat those that would
tear down, those that would destroy, and those that are a taint upon the
lands, and in doing so created the Watchers.  Now they stalk the lands,
seeking those that rule and guard the cities, and those twisted by the gods
of light and darkness.
 
See Also: HELP STALKER, WARDER, ARMIES, RAID
~

#1124
-2 psionicist~ DEATHMARE~
DEATHMARE
Syntax: dreamwalk deathmare

  Though normally the waking and dream world have no effect
upon each other, once a dreamwalk is started the illusion
of dreaming is so perfect and the mind to attuned that
whatever harm a dreamer suffers begins to be reflected in
the waking world.
Those whom posses this ability may use this fact to create
vicious nightmares that leave their victims scarred for
life or just plain dead.
 
See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#1125
-2 psionicist~ MINDMELT~
MINDMELT
Syntax: dreamwalk mindmelt
 
  A dreaming person's mind can be explored and studied during
a dreamwalk.  Once the key weak points are mapped a full assault
upon its defenses will quickly reduce the victim's resistance
to mental spells.
 
See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#1126
-2 psionicist~ DREAMPROBE~
DREAMPROBE
Syntax: dreamwalk dreamprobe
 
  Though most of the dreamwalk abilities focus on aggressive
alteration of victim's dreams, the dreamprobe's focus is on
passive study and observations.  Using this dreamwalk the
Psionicsts may find out exact strength and abilities of its
victim and create a special dreamlink.  This special link
will not only allow the Psionicist to sense whenever its
victim enters the dreaming and waking state, but also 
to dreamwalk the person's dreams regardless of the distance
between them.
See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#1127
-2 psionicist~ 'SPELL VISE'~
SPELL VISE                 AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'spell vise' <victim>
 
  By applying techniques similar to that of dreamwalk the user
of this spell can create a powerful field of mental pressure
aimed at its victim's subconscious psyche.  The steady mental
assault this field creates, guided by the Psionicsts will quickly
remove any beneficial enchantments the victim might be sustaining.
The duration of this spell is halved on successful save.
See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#1128
-2 psionicist~ 'MANA TRAP'~
MANA TRAP
Syntax: cast 'mana trap'
 
  By tuning into the magical and mental processes in their 
immediate vicinity, the Psionicsts under the effects of this
spell can harness the raw magical energy expanded by anyone
who directs a harmful spell in their direction.  The mana
expanded to cast the spell is trapped and stored by the
caster of this enchantment.
 
See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#1129
-2 psionicist~ 'SPELL TRAP'~
SPELL TRAP
Syntax: cast 'spell trap'
 
  Using a process similar to the one utilized by mana trap
spell the user of this spell can trap the mental essence of
a harmful spell being cast in their direction and use it to
replenish their own spells.  As a result the owner of this
enchantment will gain a spell in the Circle equivalent to
the spell trapped.
 
Example:  A level 38 (4th circle) spell Hellstream has been
cast at the Psionicst.  The Psionicist would the gain a single
4th Circle spell on his memory as if it was meditated upon
normally.
 
See also: HELP TELEPATHY, PSI CIRCLES
~

#1130
-2 psionicist~ DOMINATION~
DOMINATION
The culmination of the path first begun by focusing on telepathy, 
the Psionist Lore of Domination gives the pupil the power to control
and destroy minds as he or she sees fit.
 
The following spells depend on arts of Destruction:
 
  Soul Pump
  Total Recall
  Masochism
  Unminding
  Brain Death
 
See also: HELP PSI LORE, KINESIS
~

#1131
-2 psionicist~ 'SOUL PUMP'~
SOUL PUMP		AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'soul pump' <victim>
 
  A vicious and cruel spell which takes over the victim's
mind and body and forces it to unwillingly share some of
its health, mindpower and vitality to the caster.  The
force of the transfer is strongly affected by the difference
between the state of victim and state of the caster's health,
mindpower and vitality.
 
See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#1132
-2 psionicist~ 'SPELL BLAST'~
SPELL BLAST               AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'spell blast'
        cast 'spell blast' <amount of mana>
 
  A somewhat unique and semi-sentient spell, this enchantment
will automatically attempt to interrupt casting of any spell
directed towards the Psionicsts while its being formed in
a caster's mind.  The cost to destroy the spell is three times 
higher then amount of mana required to cast it and deducted only 
if the spell blast is successful (failed save vs mental spells).  
The caster can specify the amount of mana to use for spell blast, 
and further add mana as long as the spell is in effect.
 
See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#1133
-2 psionicist~ MASOCHISM~
MASOCHISM               AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'masochism' <victim>
 
  By controlling the victim's mind in a most basic yet subtle
way the Psionicst is capable of turning their own mind against them.
The victim of this spell might turn on themselves each time an 
opportunity to exact physical damage on their flesh arises.
 
See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#1134
-2 psionicist~ 'TOTAL RECALL'~
TOTAL RECALL
Syntax: cast 'total recall'
 
  At their peak of power and training those of Psionicst guild
whom have achieved total control of their own minds may attempt
to instantaneously remember the details of all the spells they
are planning to meditate upon.  Once cast, this spell will 
restore ALL the spells in current memory set with exception
of total recall.
 
See also: HELP DOMINATION, MEMORIZE
~

#1135
-2 psionicist~ 'BRAIN DEATH'~
BRAIN DEATH
Syntax: cast 'brain death' <victim>
 
  This dreadful and deadly spell focuses the full power
of Psionicist's skills of domination and telepathy and
turns them towards a single purpose: Elimination of every
trace of intelligence in the victim.  There is no saving
throw against this magical abomination.
 
See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#1136
-1 stalker~
STALKER
 
While it is said that nature is peaceful and nurturing, there are those
dedicated to its cause that are quite the opposite.  Deep in the heart of
the forests they gather, forever on guard against those that would intrude,
those that would harm, those that would destroy.  They are the sword, the
shield, and the fury of nature itself.  They are called Stalkers.  They
travel the lands searching for those tainted by gods and magic, seeking to
destroy them and rid the lands of their pestilence.
 
Since the gods changed and twisted mortals with their power, nature has
recoiled and rebelled at their touch, as it causes the lands to decay and
die.  The spirit of nature cries out in pain at their passing, sharing that
pain with those that are in tune with it.  Stalkers are dedicated to
eliminating all that is unnatural in the lands, and healing the scars caused
by their touch.  Be the creature of the Light or Darkness, it matters not,
Stalkers will hunt them relentlessly.  Due to this, only the bravest, most
dedicated followers will be allowed into their ranks, as they know no fear,
and will hunt even the most feared creatures in the lands. 
 
See Also:  HELP WATCHER, WARDER
~

#1137
-4 cabal~ warder~
Following powers are available to Warder:
  Protector     :     Webbing, Awaken Life
  Warder        :     Whirlwind, Dragon Blood
  Tree Lord/Lady:     Regenerate
  High Guardian :     Eye of Nature
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
See Also: HELP WATCHER
~

#1138
-2 psionicist~ UNMINDING~
UNMINDING
Syntax: cast 'unminding' <victim>
 
  This fearsome and barbaric spell once unleashed upon its victim begins
to shred and twist the very fabric of the being's memories and experiences.
The greater the sum of accumulated experience the greater the damage resulting
from this terrible spell.  As a side effect of this terrible unminding the victim
loses all racial defenses against any sort of mental attack be it damage or a
spell.
 
See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#1139
-1 'LAWFUL GOOD'~
Lawful Good:
Peace and cooperation are to be preserved for the good of all, according
to the believes of these individuals.  Pacifist are of this path almost
without exception, although most lawful goods believe that certain
situations warrant action.  They also believe in preserving the peace
within protected areas for the safety of the entire citizenry, so they
uphold the laws whether Justices are present or not.

See Also: HELP GOOD
~

#1140
-1 'NEUTRAL GOOD'~
Neutral Good:
Those of this path are strong followers of the Light, above all else.
The weak must be defended, and lawful neutrals act to ensure that right
triumphs over wrong, whether by assisting the law in a time of chaos,
or acting against an unjust government.  Even if their actions will
sometimes bring about consequences to themselves, they are willing to
accept this in order to do what is good and right.

See Also: HELP GOOD
~

#1141
-1 'CHAOTIC GOOD'~
Chaotic Good:
Rebels and revolutionaries, these idealists strive to improve society
through upheaval.  They are the over throwers of tyranny and the fighters
for freedom.  They are not afraid to attack the law if they believe that
the establishment is corrupt, or if the system is protecting wrongdoers.
They believe in change for the betterment of all, even by violence if
necessary.

See Also: HELP GOOD
~

#1142
-1 'LAWFUL NEUTRAL'~
Lawful Neutral:
Those who are lawful neutral preserve the existing order above all else.
Chaos and unpredictability can be dangerous, hence they seek to protect
the current system of laws and other forms of organization.  Laws are
obeyed not out necessarily because one agrees with its ideology, but
because this is the way things must be done.  Breaking the law goes
against everything that a lawful neutral stands for, whether they are
caught or not.

See Also: HELP NEUTRAL
~

#1143
-1 'NEUTRAL NEUTRAL'~
True Neutral:
Whether through careful observation of the surrounding world or through
blatant indifference regarding the forces around them, true neutrals
live neither in laws or chaos, and their actions are neither good nor
evil.  Those who are unconcerned with the struggles around them will
not ally themselves with any particular side in these conflicts, while
the more contentious followers of the Balance will impartially judge
which side is weaker and help them so that the natural Balance of Aabahran
is not disrupted.

See Also: HELP NEUTRAL
~

#1144
-1 'CHAOTIC NEUTRAL'~
Chaotic Neutral:
The alignment of gamblers and rogues, chaotic neutrals serve only their
whims and strive to live life to its fullest.  Random chance and Lady
Luck are what guide their lives, as they realize that they have little
control over the world outside of their own selves.  Existing systems
which tell them what they can and cannot do are their natural enemies,
and they are often branded troublemakers by authorities.  Although they
lead relatively carefree lives, they are watched closely by the Dark
Gods, for should their whims grow cruel or their professions grow overly
bloodthirsty, their hearts will be turned to evil.

See Also: HELP NEUTRAL
~

#1145
-1 'LAWFUL EVIL'~
Lawful Evil:
Deceptive and manipulative, lawful evils augment their own power
through their use of laws and circumstances.  Direct confrontation
is seldom necessary when there are more efficient and clandestine
ways to solve one's problems.  When pressed, however, lawful evils
are prone to violently shedding their guise of unwillingness, in
sudden and unexpected displays of force.  They will not break laws
even when it appears safe to do so, both out of the possibility of
the abrupt arrival of Justices and to avoid the appearance of being
blasphemous to the gods of order.

See Also: HELP EVIL
~

#1146
-1 'NEUTRAL EVIL'~
Neutral Evil:
Living by the phrase "by any means necessary", neutral evils use any
and all methods at their disposal to achieve what they want.  Honor
and scruples exist only as weaknesses to exploit, and cruelty is but
another means of coercion.  Whether through taking advantage of laws
or breaking them while their prey is lulled by its false security,
neutral evils are bound only by the power they have and their lust
for more.

See Also: HELP EVIL
~

#1147
-1 'CHAOTIC EVIL'~
Chaotic Evil:
From the common bandit to powerful warrior-lords, many choose to
follow the path of chaotic evil.  These are the ones prone to violence,
the scoundrels and murderers, the curse and bane of society.  Their
only law is the belief that might makes right.  Power in its rawest,
purest form is the only order among this type, as they only obey those
capable of crushing them.  Yet true chaotic evils will not
be content to serve their master for long, as it is their nature to
fight and overthrow, to compete in the eternal struggle to become
the most powerful.

See Also: HELP EVIL
~

#1148
-1 'CHARGEN ALIGN NOTE'~
ALIGNMENT

One's alignment is the path that one has chosen to follow: good, neutral,
or evil.  It reflects one's nature, and describes how he reacts to
situations and how he interacts with others.  Alignment is chosen at birth,
and the gods expect mortals to follow their chosen paths for their entire
lives.  
~

#1149
-1 'CHARGEN ETHOS NOTE'~
ETHOS

Ethos farther refines how one upholds his or hers alignment.  It reflects
the particular way the character acts within his or her's alignment.  Ethos
are chosen at birth, and the gods expect mortals to follow their chosen
paths for their entire lives.  
~

#1150
-1 'CHARGEN RELIGION NOTE'~
RELIGION
 
In life, you shall devote yourself to a particular god.  You will not
select a patron deity directly, instead choosing a Path best representing
your belief.  Based upon your choices, a deity that best suits your desires
and beliefs will be assigned to you.  This is something taken very
seriously, and one should do their best to represent the God they devote to
with the greatest of respect.  
~

#1151
-1 'GAL-RANIDON CITY'~
In the deepest recesses of the Underdark, a race of evil dwarves make
their home.  Being an enviroment ill-suited for most creatures, few, besides
the duergar themselves, are able to survive in Gal Ranidon.  Even for those
that live there, it is a harsh and rugged life.  
~

#1152
-1 'VALMIRAN CITY'~
A haven for all those good of heart, Val Miran is the bastion of the
West.  The lush enviroment and placement upon a major trade route has
encouraged not only great growth, but also great morality.  Prospective
heroes of the Light commonly hail from this righteous city.  
~

#1153
-1 'XYMERRIA CITY'~
The drow make their home in the eastern Underdark.  The drow living
there, being fanatic xenophopes, allow very few outsiders in.  Far from
other civilization and influence, Xymerria is an extremely dangerous city in
which to live.  
~

#1154
-1 'SHASARAZADE CITY'~
Beautiful spires and towers are the trademarks of the elven city of
Shasarazade.  Located past the rolling hills to the northeast of Rheydin, it
is a beautiful, if somewhat isolated city.  Populated and protected by the
elves, it is a safe and peaceful city.  
~

#1155
-1 'MIRUVHOR CITY'~
The dark port of the East.  Miruvhor is a heavily populated and harsh
city located on the shores of the Dragon Sea.  Miruvhor is home to a wide
variety of scoundrels, evil mercenaries, and a host of darker beings.  It is
a major trade city, and as such, has a widely varied racial population.  
~

#1156
-1 'ILLITHID-HIVE CITY'~
Hidden deep below the sewers of Miruvhor is a small community of
illithid.  Being an extremely harsh and dangerous race, few outsiders
journey to the Hive.  Difficult to get to and from, it is a place suited
only for the illithid and their slaves.  
~

#1157
-1 'FALEN_DARA CITY' 'FALEN DARA'~
The sunny city of Falen Dara hosts a great population of Slith.  Located
to the north of Val Miran, it is among the oldest cities in all of Aabahran.  A
major trade port long ago, it is now home only to the Slith.  
~

#1158
-1 'KHORANDAIN CITY'~
There is a city, named Khorandain, which is cut directly into the largest
mountain of Aabahran, Mt. Khorand. Although physically isolated, it is 
nonetheless an important trade hub. Lying to the south of the Dwarf Forest, 
and to the west of Tarandue, it is the ancestral home of the dwarves.  
~

#1159
-1 'RHEYDIN CITY'~
Nestled within the mountain ranges of central Aabahran, Rheydin is a nexus
of trade routes.  The largest and most prosperous city of Aabahran, it is
reknowned for its racial and religious tolerance.  The majority of all
adventurers hail from Rheydin, due to its central location and its widely
varied population.  
~

#1160
-1 'MARAK CITY'~
Isolated from most of the world, the village of Marak lies deep in the
northern reaches of Aabahran.  It is here that many ogres of Aabahran make
their home.  The enviroment, being generally harsh and isolated, has produced a
similar people.  
~

#1161
-1 'SHIRE CITY'~
Upon the western outskirts of Val Miran there is a humble community of
halflings.  Enjoying the wealth and safety of Val Miran, they have been able
to maintain a traditional lifestyle.  Although the home of many halfling
adventurers, these people generally tend to keep to themselves.  
~

#1162
-1 'TARANDUE CITY'~
Within the rich grasslands south of Rheydin, the gnomes of Aabahran have
made their home.  Tending to their pastures and village, they are a peaceful
people.  With such close proximity to Rheydin, they enjoy an influx of
people seeking the wonders of gnomish technology.  
~

#1163
-1 'CHARGEN DETAIL NOTE'~
.
DETAILED CREATION

Forsaken Lands allows you to choose detailed characterists such as build,
hair color, starting weapon and character perks.  This is not required but
may help you flesh out your character further.  
~

#1164
-1 DRUGS DRUG HERBS HERB LEAVES~
DRUGS DRUG HERBS HERB LEAVES
 
Rolling dried leaves and herbs into a long tube, lighting it with a small
flame, and then breathing in the smoke was first developed by the
Druidic Order.  The rangers soon took up this hobby, and from them the
rest of the world came to recognize the value of drugs.  Known as both
a luxury and an aid in certain circumstances, there are nevertheless
disadvantages in pursuing this activity.
 
SEE ALSO: SMOKE, PRESERVE
~

#1165
-1 SMOKE~
SMOKE
Syntax: smoke <herbs/leaves>
 
The act of inhaling the fumes given off by burning herbs and/or leaves,
this is required for one to receive the benefits from a drug.
 
SEE ALSO: DRUGS, PRESERVE
~

#1166
-1 PRESERVE~
PRESERVE
Syntax: preserve <herbs/leaves>
 
While those living in the forest could gather the plants as was needed,
city-dwellers were not so lucky.  They found that the herbs collected
from only a few days ago would quickly rot away into useless dirt.
A solution was quickly found by the Thief and Ninja Guilds.  Today,
they are the only ones who know how to preserve drugs.
 
SEE ALSO: DRUGS, SMOKE
~

#1167
-1 EXOTIC~
EXOTIC
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons are those which do not easily fall into any other
category.  Often they are magical or strange items, or weapons 
specific to some culture or profession.

Exotics are more offensive then polearms, and easier to defend
with then flails.  They disarm better then flails, shield-disarm
better then whips, and are easier to disarm then whips.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1168
-1 SWORD~
SWORD
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons encompass all manner of blades which are more then
10 inches in length including cutting or pointed blades. They are 
the most common type of weapon found in the lands.

Swords are more offensive then spears, and easier to defend
with then daggers. They disarm better then daggers, shield-
disarm better then spears and are easier to disarm then spears.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1169
-1 DAGGER~
DAGGER
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons include all types of blades under 10 inches in length
such as knifes dirks, stilettos and daggers.  Blades may be single
or double edged or pointed.

Daggers are more offensive then staffs, and easier to defend
with then maces. They disarm better then polearms, shield-disarm 
worse then spears and are easier to disarm then polearms.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1170
-1 MACE~
MACE
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons relay on brute kinetic force to cause the damage
and are more effective against armored foes then edged weapons.
Maces, hammers and war-hammers belong to this category.

Maces are identical to exotics in terms of offense and defense. 
They disarm better then spears, shield-disarm better then staffs 
and are easier to disarm then exotics.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1171
-1 AXE~
AXE
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons are usually composed of a chopping, weighted blade
affixed to a haft, with a balanced weight or secondary blade
opposite to the primary blade.

Axes are more offensive then flails, and easier to defend with 
then whips. They disarm better then staffs, shield-disarm better 
then polearms and are easier to disarm then daggers.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1172
-1 FLAIL~
FLAIL
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons originate from the simple grain-thrashing farmer
flail composed of two wooden parts bound by rope.  Military
flails and morning stars usually include a round head chained
to a haft or handle.

Flails are more offensive then maces or exotics, and easier to 
defend with then axes. They disarm better then swords, shield-
disarm better then exotics and are easier to disarm then maces.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1173
-1 WHIP~
WHIP
Syntax:  automatic

These weapons maybe as simple as a length of leather or as
devious as barbed cato'nine tail.  In proper hands their
blow can easily shred hardened leather and be practically 
impossible to avoid.

Whips are more offensive and harder to defend with then axes.
They disarm better then exotics, shield-disarm better then axes 
and are harder to disarm then exotics.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1174
-1 POLEARM GLAIVE~
POLEARM
Syntax:  automatic

Polearms include lances, scythes, halberds and glaives.  In case 
of the latter two they are composed of an axe like blade attached 
to a long 6-8 foot haft and usually adorned with various hooks and
barbs.

Polearms are more offensive then swords, and easier to defend with 
then spears. They disarm better then staffs, shield-disarm better 
then maces and are easier to disarm then flails.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1175
-1 STAFF~
STAFFS
Syntax:  automatic

These simple weapons are often nothing then a length of wood
cut to height of 3 to 6 feet.  More intricate variations with
iron shod or bladed ends have also seen use.

Staffs are less offensive then daggers, and easier to defend
with then polearms.  They disarm better then mace, shield-
disarm better then swords, and are easier to disarm then swords.

Staffs are the only two handed weapons which DO NOT require
two handed skill to use effectivly.
See also: HELP WEAPONS, PUGIL
~

#1176
-1 SPEAR~
SPEAR
Syntax:  automatic

These ancient weapons require only a long haft and a sharpened
tip.  The length of the haft varies from short one handed spears
to 21 feet pikes meant to halt cavalry charges.  Variations include
awl-pikes and barbed spears.

Spears are more offensive and easier to defend with then daggers.
They disarm worse then maces, shield-disarm better then daggers and
are easier to disarm then axes.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#1177
-1 FERAL FERALS~
FERAL

In the year 368, a group of Miruvhorian refugees were forced to flee into
the Forsaken Lands.  These men and women, driven by the instinct of
survival, managed to make their home within those lands for some time. 
However, as time went on, their minds were tainted and their bodies ravaged
by the influence of Chaos in the corrupted land on which they lived. They 
began to crouch low as their bodies attuned to the wild and some grew claws 
with which  to defend themselves. Their senses were empowered tremendously 
even as fur covered their skin and their features grew more beastly then
human.  Fire, being once a tool necessary for survival, became their greatest 
fear.

The feral, as they have become known, emerged from the Forsaken Lands a
rugged and forever changed people.  They are extremely fast, strong and 
tough, and their need of survival has attuned their natural reflexes to the 
extreme. Being the product of corruption and tainted means, the natural world 
rejected them.  They in turn rejected the civilized world and the rules 
imposed upon it.  Living in an extremely harsh environment, their outlook on 
life is much the same.  Kindness and goodness are a foreign concept to their 
necessities of life.  The feral are truly the forsaken people of Aabahran.  

Feral can be the following classes: 
Warrior, Ranger, Thief, Ninja, Blademaster, Cleric, and Shaman 

See Also: HELP FURY, SENSE MOTION
~

#1178
-4 cabal~ STALKER~
Following powers are available to Stalker:
  Hunter        :     Greenheart, Fasting
  Stalker       :     Witchcompass, Planar Seal
  Slayer        :     Forestmeld
  High Guardian :     Eye of Nature
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1179
-1 FURY~
FURY
Syntax: fury <target>
 
The feral, with their need for survival, have developed a way to utilize their emotion in 
combat. Combining their great fury with their blazing speed, they have been known to 
execute a blazing flurry of blows unto their opponent. These blows, typically targeted 
at the face, have the intent to terrify and confuse their opponents. Those affected by 
the strike have a difficult time concentrating on their spells and faith, as they must 
cope with the excruciating pain. A complex technique to execute, only those feral of 
moderately high rank are able to utilize this maneuver.
 
See also: HELP FERAL
~

#1180
-1 'ralardia city'~
A once peaceful sanctuary, to those who call the forests their home. 
After years of war, the beautiful forest was destroyed, but decades later,
rebuilt by an unknown man.  The creatures who once lived there can now call
it home once more.  
~

#1181
-1 none~
~

#1182
-2 psionicist~ ILLUSION~
ILLUSION
Syntax: automatic
 
Being a more subtle focus, the path of Illusion is concentrated on the manipulation of 
the senses and the indirect exploitation of the mind. 
The following spells depend on arts of Illusion:
 
  False Weapon
  Shadow Door
  Mirror Cloak
  Numbness
  Nerve Amp
  Mirage
  Blink
  Duplicate
  Spook
 
See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, ALTERATION
~

#1183
-2 psionicist~ Alteration~
ALTERATION
Syntax: automatic
 
  Those psionicists who focus upon altering the state of matter and
other people delve into thsi path of study.
The following spells depend on arts of Alteration:
 
  Time Compression
  Planar Rift
  Molecular Leash
  Petrify
  Paralyze
 
See also:  HELP PSI FOCUS, ILLUSION
~

#1184
-2 psionicist~ 'Time Compression'~
TIME COMPRESSION
Syntax: cast 'time compression'
 
  Manipulating the threads of temporal energies that surround this world,
psionicists are able to speed up time as it relates to themselves.  Upon
invoking this power, the psionicist will be granted superhuman speed, and
every attack he is normally capable of dealing will instead be dealt twice.
 
See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1185
-2 psionicist~ 'Planar Rift'~
PLANAR RIFT
Syntax: cast 'planar rift'
 
  By unceremoniously rending a tear in the fabrics of reality, the psionicist
is able to create a blade-shaped plane of force with which he is able to use
as if it were a weapon.  This blade is infinitely sharp, technically being
composed of nothing but pure force, and is known to be particularly effective
against undead opponents.
 
See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1186
-2 psionicist~ 'FALSE WEAPON'~
FALSE WEAPON
Syntax: cast 'false weapon' <type>
 
In this simple trick, the Psionicist uses their mind to cloak their weapon. The weapon, 
thus cloaked, appears to be of a different type. The sight of a Psionicist's measly 
stick suddenly being transformed into a bristling double-bladed waraxe has persuaded 
many opponents to choose other targets.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1187
-2 psionicist~ 'SHADOW DOOR'~
SHADOW DOOR
Syntax: cast 'shadow door'
 
A staple of the Illusionist's arsenal, the shadow door spell allows the Psionicst to 
trick their opponents while fleeing. The Psionicist appears to step through a black 
door, thus evading their opponent entirely whenever they choose to retreat. A skilled 
Psionicist also been known to flee right through any physical barriers. Upon fleeing, 
they immediately cloak themselves in an invisibility spell to make the illusion 
complete.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1188
-2 psionicist~ 'Molecular Leash'~
MOLECULAR LEASH		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'molecular leash'
 
  This potent spell possesses the ability to stop it's victim dead in their
tracks, literaly.  When invoked upon someone, that person is bound to the
caster by a line of super-dense air molecules lashed around their neck.  If
the victim attempts to flee, the leash draws itself tighter around their neck,
and prevents the attempted flight.  While short-lasted, this spell can be
used to great effect when properly utilized.
 
See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1189
-2 psionicist~ petrify~
PETRIFY
Syntax: cast 'petrify'
 
  Known by only the most powerful of psionicists, this viscous spell turns
the victim into a lifeless statue in all aspects.  While under the effects
of this alteration, the individual is completely and utterly helpless, unable
to move, think, or perform any other action.  However, like the stone they
are composed of, they are totally immune to all physical attacks.  This spell
has never been known to fail, and once begun, this enchantment spells doom
for almost everyone.
 
See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1190
-2 psionicist~ paralyze~
PARALYZE
Syntax: cast 'paralyze'
 
  Those who possess this deadly power are thankfully rare in existance.  Upon
casting, the fluids within the victim's body are frozen nearly solid, and
normal movement becomes very difficult.  The effects of stunning attacks are
increased upon a paralyzed victim, and unfortunately, this alteration lasts
for a substantial amount of time.  As with other powers of it's circle, this
spell possesses the ability to bypass any resistance or other protections the
victim may have.
 
See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1191
-2 psionicist~ 'MIRROR CLOAK'~
MIRROR CLOAK
Syntax: cast 'mirror cloak'
 
By focusing the powers of their mind, the Psionicist is capable of shrouding 
themselves in a reflective field. This field causes any who choose to view the caster to 
see themselves instead. This includes all physical properities and magical auras 
surrounding the person being reflected.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1192
-2 psionicist~ 'NERVE AMP'~
NERVE AMP	AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'nerve amp' <target>
 
By strengthening certain signals sent throughout the body, a skilled Psionicist is 
capable of altering their opponent's perception of pain. While thus affected, the 
opponent will start to feel the wounds of battle earlier, and will typically be panicked 
into a hasty retreat. This is the reverse of the numbness illusion.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1193
-2 psionicist~ 'NUMBNESS'~
NUMBNESS	AMPLIFICATION: STRONG
Syntax: cast 'numbness' <target>
 
This illusion causes the target's nervous system to slow down. The thus affected will 
be slow to feel any pain received in battle, and an insidious Psionicist will be capable 
of making them commit longer than their bodies can handle. This is the reverse of the 
nerve amp illusion.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1194
-2 psionicist~ 'MIRAGE'~
MIRAGE		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK
Syntax: cast 'mirage'
 
By creating multiple illusions around them, a Psionicist is capable of fooling their 
opponents in combat. Even the most skilled warriors are overwhelmed as a multitude 
of weapons strike at them, never knowing which one is real. This allows the Illusionist 
to easily slip in and hit the confused opponent.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1195
-4 cabal~ 'PLANAR SEAL'~
PLANAR SEAL
Syntax cast 'planar seal' <target>
 
  Knowing that the enemies they face draw their strength and power from
planes other then Aabahran. The Stalkers of Watcher have developed this
powerful spell to seal them off from their sources of power. When cast
the Planar Seal will instantly prevent all magical travel with exception
of time based spells, and further cripple unnatural creatures as follows:
 
- Undead:  The absence of link to the Limbo results in slower regeneration.
- Demonic: Unable to channel Chaos and hence not capable of corrupting.
- Avatars: Unable to call upon their Deity.
 
See Also: HELP STALKER
~

#1196
-2 psionicist~ 'DUPLICATE'~
DUPLICATE
Syntax: cast 'duplicate'
 
A very complex spell, the Duplicate illusion is used to create a perfect replica of 
another being. Once formed, the being will aid the caster in combat. The replica is so 
perfect that the illusion is fully capable of harming real objects.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1197
-2 psionicist~ 'SPOOK'~
SPOOK		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM
Syntax: cast 'spook' <target>
 
A powerful Psionicist is capable probing the inter reaches of the mind and extracting 
the greatest fears of a person. By melding these fears together, they are capable of 
creating an apparition to torment their foe. This foe, only visible by the affected, is so 
disturbing that even hardened soldiers have been known to panic and drop whatever 
they were holding in an attempt to retreat.
 
See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1198
-1 'ARMY PROMPT'~
ARMY PROMPT
Syntax: army [last]
 
The army command toggles your army command mode on and off.  Using the
last keyword will automaticly zoom in on the room of the last army
report.
 
 Recruits in cabal: decreased as members conscript, increased with time
  |  Regular units in your barracks: [C]onscripted
  |  | Elite units in your barracks: [T]rained from normal units
  |  | |          Barrack Orders  Current Map Number
  V  V V             |                |  
< 9: 2.3 >[APHGFB]-[CTR]-[ZMOQ]-[?] Map#68 : The Great Chasm   
             |             |                      |
      Unit orders      Info Commands       Current map name
 
See Also: HELP ARMY, ARMY COMMANDS
~

#1199
-4 cabal~ WATCHER~
Following powers are available to Watcher:
  Initiate      :     none
  Forager       :     Elemental Call
 
Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#1200
-4 cabal~ 'ELEMENTAL CALL'~
ELEMENTAL CALL
Syntax: cast 'elemental call'
 
 With the forces of nature willing to aid their cause, the
members of Watcher may call upon the elements of air, water
and earth to protect them in their quests.  The particular
element summoned depends on the caster's immediate area.
 
See Also: HELP WATCHER
~

#1201
-1 perk perks~
PERK PERKS
  
Forsaken Lands allows you to choose detailed characterists such as build,
hair color, starting weapon and character perks.  This is not required but
may help you flesh out your character further.  Most of the selectable perks
below will provide your character benefits, albeit with a sacrifice in
others.  Below lists the selectable perks groups in which the perks will be
listed with a summarized explanation of their effects.  Be careful when
choosing, however.  Once you have decided on which perk, if any, you will
select, your choice is irrevocable.
 
See Also:  ADDICTION PERKS, PHYSICAL PERKS, SIZE PERKS, SOCIAL PERKS,
           SPIRITUAL PERKS, TRAINING PERKS
~

#1202
-1 'size perks'~
SIZE PERKS
  
These perks are categorized as perks that indicate your height, weight, and
maybe even your build.  Possible effects could be increased carrying capacity,
reduced food intake, and the like.
 
Overweight:
You are used to carrying more weight, but are less agile.
 
Underweight:
You can count your ribs with closed eyes and feast on a small snack.
 
Tall:
You've sprouted taller then most.  Your long legs allow for extra movement.
 
Short:
Your smaller figure is easier to conceal in shadows or foliage.
 
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1203
-1 'physical perks'~
PHYSICAL PERKS
 
While similar to size perks, this category focuses on perks that effect
not your size, but your physical characteristics.  Healing capacity, mental
capacity and even physical health are possible choice you can make.
 
Healthy:
You're an example of perfect health.  You heal faster then normal.
 
Sickly:
You cough, weeze, and learn faster then your peers.
 
Stout:
You're healthier then normal, but your mana reserves are smaller.
 
Nimble:
You can carry more items then normal, but you're weaker then normal.
 
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1204
-1 'training perks'~
TRAINING PERKS
 
Whether it was in a stuffy library or in the great outdoors, this branch
of perks reflects changes made by years of dilligent study.  The studious
mage and the keen-eyed scout are possible choices here.
 
Bookworm:
Your love of books has paid off.  You are a master at reading scrolls.
 
Athletic:
Your athletic build make you stronger and more accurate then others.
 
Artificer:
Your knowledge about magical artifacts, orbs and staves knowns no equal.
 
Tinkerer:
You own Brambusworks VIP scroll.  Your skill with wands is unmatched.
 
Eagle-eye:
Your perfect eyesight alows you to scan and scout over longer distance.
 
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1205
-1 'social perks'~
SOCIAL PERKS
 
Everyone loves a healthy smile.  Everyone loathes a bully.  This group
of perks indicates a certain talent, be it for good or ill, that tends
to get people to do what you want them to do.
 
Charismatic:
You are a natural charmer and a master at haggling.
 
Fearsome:
Your fearsome appearance makes creatures less aggressive.
 
Greedy:
Avarice is your middle name.  You avoid paying bank transaction fees.
 
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1206
-1 'addiction perks'~
ADDICTION PERKS
 
Face it, mortals have their weaknesses, and noone knows that better than
you.  Whether it is in a bottle or a pipe, you lose yourself in your
substance of choice, and have grown a tolerance to it.
 
Alcoholic:
You love all things spiritual and ignore negative effects of alcohol.
  
Addict:
You love all things chemical and resist negative effects of drugs.
  
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1207
-1 'spiritual perks'~
SPIRITUAL PERKS
 
If one thing is for certain in this world, it is that there are forces
beyond your comprehension at work.  You have seen this as a global truth,
and have either embraced or denied this.  Maybe you have the knack of
being in the right place at the right time or vice versa.  Either way,
someone is pulling string for you.
 
Lucky:
Lady Luck fancies you.  Your luck tends to run higher then average.
  
Unlucky:
Jinx is your middle name but you tend to grow healthier with ranks.
 
Pious:
Your faith has no equal.  Gods give you with more gold for sacrifices.
 
Magical:
Your mana resources are greater but you're less healthy then normal.
 
See Also:  PERKS
~

#1208
-1 bregyn~
In the early days of the first age of Aabahran, the people poured into
the newly built cities seeking safety.  With this increase of citizens, came
a sharp increase of crime.  Thus the wisest mages and scholars of the time
set out to come up with a solution.  After several secret meetings, they
decided to create the perfect upholder of the law.  Several slabs of granite
were brought together, as well as a tome containing what would soon be known
as the Codex.  For many months the mages and scholars poured their magicks
and knowledge into the massive form of the Golem.
 
Upon his creation, the Golem given the designation Bregyn, took to his
own.  Having no need for food or sleep, and with a seemingly unending energy
supply, Bregyn spent centuries building his knowledge of all things.  Though
created by the magics of mortals, it was through the endowment of power from
Order itself that he rose to the heavens.  Bregyn is the perfect creation of
Order, spending every available moment in the pursuit of it's goals.
~

#1209
-1 none~
~

#1210
-4 cabal~ 'DRAGON BLOOD'~
DRAGON BLOOD
Syntaxcast 'dragon blood'
 
 By consuming small quantities of a dragon's blood, the members of
Warder may temporarily gain the abilities of this mighty race.
 
See Also: HELP WARDER
~

#1211
-4 cabal~ 'WHIRLWIND'~
WHIRLWIND
Syntaxcast 'whirlwind' <target>
 
  With the mighty tempests at their beck and call, the Warders of Watcher
may create a mighty whirlwind around themselves and their foe.  Under the
control of the Warder, the mighty gales can carry them and their victim 
far away from the original location.
 
See also: HELP WARDER
~

#1212
-4 cabal~ 'AWAKEN LIFE'~
AWAKEN LIFE
Syntax: cast 'awaken life'
 
 Though slow to anger and stir from their ageless sleep, the forces of
nature once awoken are a sight to behold.  Use this mighty spell to summon
forth a champion of nature to serve you in your fight against the encroaching
civilization.  Once summoned your servant may be given orders using "servant"
command.
 
See Also: HELP WARDER
~

#1213
-1 'airia city'~
Situated directly above Mt.  V'ell, Airia floats upon enormous, arcane
platforms.  Founded thousands of years ago, this city continues to be a
shining bastion of civilization in an untamed land.  Populated exclusively
by avians, the prospect of allowing other races is a highly debated issue
amongst the Administrativa Officialus. 
~

#1214
-1 TELEPATH TELEPATHY~
TELEPATHY

Certain races and beings in Aabahran communicate by broadcasting their
thoughts directly into another brain.  This mode of speech requires mental
effort to use, and is unaffected by its receiver's waking state, or spells
such as silence.  
~

#1215
-1 LEADERSHIP~
LEADERSHIP
Syntax: automatic
 
  When sighted upon the battlefield the cabal generals my use their natural
skills at leadership to improve their troop's morale and make them more 
effective in battle.  Only the most skilled leader in the room is used.
 
See also: HELP CABALS
~

#1216
-1 'STEEL WALL'~
STEEL WALL
Syntax:  cast 'steel wall'
 
This spell causes a spinning mass of steel shards to come into existence
around the caster.  Forming a sphere, the shards move in perfect
synchronization with the caster, avoiding any obstacles in their way except
those seeking to harm or reach the caster.  This spell cannot be cast if
'spell turning' is already in effect around the caster. 
~

#1217
-2 ranger~ 'RAPID FIRE'~
RAPID FIRE
Syntax: rapid
 
An Archer, being a master of ranged weapons, can learn to quickly fire 
and reload his weapon, and in so doing sacrifice accuracy and power to 
hurriedly fire off shots in quick succession.
 
See also: FOREST LORE, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#1218
-2 ranger~ MARKSMAN~
MARKSMAN
Syntax: automatic
 
Archers, being masters of ranged combat, are able to utilize their 
weapons beyond those of the average combatant.  Their aim is perfect, 
and their sense of distance and ballistics uncanny.  Those whom have
achieved status of Marksman ignore all range penalties to their shots,
have uncanny accuracy, and cause more damage then normal using ranged
weapons.
 
See also: RANGER LORE
~

#1219
-2 ranger~ TRACKER~
TRACKER
Syntax: track <race>
 
 Rangers have long been the masters of the hunt.  After spending years
in the woods hunting and tracking prey, there are those that can spot 
even the most minute traces left by a fleeing victim.  Using highly 
developed senses, these woodsman are able to see the tracks, hear the 
rustle, and even smell the scent of those that have passed recently 
along a path, no matter how frequently traveled.
 
See also: RANGER PATH
~

#1220
-2 ranger~ FORESTWALK 'FOREST WALK'~
FORESTWALK
Syntax: automatic
 
 As rangers spend a vast majority of their time in the woods, they 
have learned ways to travel within them without being hindered by 
the natural obstacles.  Due to this they are able to travel through 
them with greater ease and speed than others.
 
See also: FOREST LORE
~

#1221
-2 ranger~ CONCEALMENT~
CONCEALMENT
Syntax: automatic
 
 The art of concealment is second nature to the ranger, and as such, 
he is not only able to hide himself from the eyes of others, but his 
pets as well.
 
See also: FOREST LORE
~

#1222
-2 ranger~ 'HORN OF NATURE' 'HORN'~
HORN OF NATURE
Syntax: automatic
 
By blowing into a magical horn, a beastmaster is able to summon a beast
to their side even if beasts would not normally be found in the area.
 
See Also: FOREST LORE
~

#1223
-2 ranger~ 'PACK CALL'~
PACK CALL
Syntax: pack
 
As their link with their pets grows stronger, rangers may call on
their beastly allies to quickly make their way to a particular
location if they are seperated.
 
See Also: HELP FOREST LORE
~

#1224
-2 ranger~ 'GROUP HERB'~
GROUP HERB
Syntax: automatic
 
  With their extensive training in the forests, rangers have 
the ability to pick out benign herbs that aid the healing process.  
Beastmasters are so proficient in this ability that they can gather 
enough herbs not for just themselves, but for their pets and allies
as well.
 
 
See Also: HELP FOREST LORE, HERB
~

#1225
-2 ranger~ HORDE~
HORDE
Syntax: automatic
 
A life in the wild amongst the beasts has allowed beastmasters to 
form a greater bond than the average ranger with the animals in the 
forests.  Because of this more will answer the call of a beastmaster 
than an ordinary ranger.  By calling upon the horde, a third beast 
will come to defend the ranger.
 
See Also: HELP RANGER LORE, BEASTCALL
~

#1226
-1 REPUTATION~
REPUTATION
Syntax: reputation 
reputation <character>
 
As you journey through the lands, your actions and decisions slowly
have effect on the reputation you hold with various races of Aabahran.
Negative actions such as murder or theft will lower your relations
with each race, while passage of time will slowly tend to raise them.
 
See also: RACIAL ENEMY
~

#1227
-4 cabal~ FORESTMELD 'FOREST MELD'~
FORESTMELD	(Min 300 cps)
Syntax: cast 'forestmeld'
 
  When cast this spell allows the user to effortlessly blend
into any foilge in the area.  The final effect is that when
in forests, the user's shape becomes blurred and hard to
recognize against the foilage.
 
See Also: HELP STALKER
~

#1228
-4 cabal~ 'EYE OF NATURE'~
EYE OF NATURE	(Min 500 cps)
Syntax: cast 'eye of nature' <argument>
 
  The High Guardians of Watcher are said to posses a unique
ability to tap into the greater forces of nature and observe
any area at will through the eyes and ears of the creatures
and plants that inhabit it.
 
See Also: HELP WATCHER, STALKER, WARDER
~

#1229
-1 BLADEMASTER BLADEMASTERS 'BLADE MASTER'~
BLADEMASTER
 
  There are those fighters in the lands of Aabahran who swearing their
blood oaths upon their blades dedicate their life to achiving perfection in
the art of swordplay. 
 
These Blademasters focus on accuracy and agility above brute force and by
becoming one with their chosen weapon are capable of fighting with speed and
grace unknown to any other proffesion.  Able to attack with equal ferocity
with one or two weapons, they study the anatomy of their enemies and land
terrifying critical strikes to cripple and disable their opponents.  Their
focus on dexterity and agility in combat allows them to choose various
battle positions as well as weapon placement in order to adapt to any
situation.  Late in their career they begin to learn secret stances allowing
them to perform feats in combat impossible for any other guild and become
experts and masters in anatomies of their choice.
 
However, these abilities do not come without a price.  The Blademasters
cannot wear heavy armors or equipment least it hinder them in battle, and
they must enter deep meditation in order to restore their clarity of mind
required for their battle skills.
 
 
See Also: HELP ANATOMY, ENCUMBERANCE, MEDITATE, MERCY
~

#1230
-1 ONSLAUGHT~
ONSLAUGHT
Syntax: onslaught
 
  One of the trademark skills of the Blademasters, this skill allows
them to begin the onslaught of their battle attacks.  When used with
success the attack will progress through the various skills which
make up Blademaster's onslaught.
 
See Also: HELP CHOP, BLADERUSH, BACKPIN, PINWHEEL
~

#1231
-1 'CRITICAL STRIKE'~
CRITICAL STRIKE
Syntax: critical <area> <victim>	: attack particular victim
	critical <area>		: attack current opponent
 
  The trademark skill of Blademasters which allows them to perform
crippling strikes at a specific areas on their opponent's bodies.
The particular choice of vital areas and organs that the Blademaster
may hit are determined by their skill in anatomy of their victim's
race.
 
See Also: HELP ANATOMY
~

#1232
-1 FOOTWORK~
FOOTWORK
Syntax: left: lead with left foot/hand
	right: lead with right foot/hand
	middle  : fight in normal stance
 
  The footwork skill represents the particular skills involved in
movement while fencing.  The blademaster proficient in this skill
is able to attack faster and more frequently, but more important
may also choose his PREFERED fighting position (shown with "score").
 
RIGHT:  Attacks with right hand.  Parry with right, dual parry with Left.
MIDDLE: Attacks randomly between two hands. Parry and dual parry as normal.
LEFT:   Attacks with left hand. Parry with left, dual parry with right.
 
If you lack a weapon to perform adequately in the preferred stance you
will automatically and instantly take up a necessary position without
changing your preferred choice.
~

#1233
-1 CHOP~
CHOP
Syntax: onslaught
 
The blademaster executes a quick vertical chop and follows through to the
side and back winding the weapon backwards and to the side in preparation
for the bladerush.
 
See also: HELP ONSLAUGHT
~

#1234
-1 BLADERUSH 'BLADE RUSH'~
BLADERUSH
Syntax: onslaught
 
With their blade positioned backwards and to the side, the blademaster
dashes forward diagonally slicing through his opponent as he does so.  If
the victim tries to parry or defend against the attack the force of the
bladerush will often disarm the weapon.
 
See also: HELP ONSLAUGHT
~

#1235
-1 BACKPIN 'BACK PIN'~
BACKPIN
Syntax: onslaught
 
Before the victim recovers from the surprise of the bladerush and turns
about. The blademaster buries his weapon in their back still facing
forward from the bladerush.
 
See also: HELP ONSLAUGHT
~

#1236
-1 PINWHEEL 'PIN WHEEL'~
PINWHEEL
Syntax: automatic
 
When the blademaster successfully backpins their opponent, they may have
enough time to perform this vicious and cruel move.  Grasping their
weapon firmly, they will quickly and with great force twist the blade
while its still imbeded in the victim's back (and if long enough chest as 
well) resulting in massive damage and spontaneous geysers of blood.
 
See also: HELP ONSLAUGHT
~

#1237
-1 POWERSTRIKE 'POWER STRIKE'~
POWERSTRIKE
Syntax: automatic
 
  Blademasters because of their total dedication to the art of the
blade are able to strike only with the weapon's center of percussion. 
This allows them to put the maximum amount of force into the blow without 
the resultant shock and vibration. When a successful powerstrike is performed, 
the weapon will always roll for its maximum damage.
 
NOTE: A successful powerstrike requires a second weapon to feign and
setup the hit.  This skill will only be used when you hold two weapons.
~

#1238
-1 BLADEWORK 'BLADE WORK'~
BLADEWORK
Syntax: automatic
	dual <weapon>
 
 
This skill represents further understanding of the principles of
swordplay and the finer points of their use in close combat. Not
only does this skill allow the blademaster to strike more blows
in combat, but also allows them to hold secondary weapons in their
offhand.  
Unlike the dual wield skill however, bladework allows for dual 
wield of weapons with same or lower weight then the primary weapon.
 
See Also: HELP DUAL WIELD
~

#1239
-1 'DEATHWEAVER' 'DEATH WEAVER'~
DEATHWEAVER
Syntax: cast 'deathweaver'
 
The first ritualistic stance available to the Blademasters. While
under its effect, the blademaster will concentrate on maintaining
his balance, and graceful movements meant to position his enemies
against each other.  
 
See Also: HELP BALANCE
~

#1240
-1 'BLOOD VOW' BLOODVOW~
BLOOD VOW
Syntax: cast 'blood vow' <weapon>
 
  This sacred vow of dedication transfers a portion of the Blademaster's
spirit into the chosen weapon making it almost an extension of the warrior's
will.  However, if the blade is sheathed or removed from the warrior's hand
he will lose contact with the portion of his own soul that has been imparted 
into the weapon.
 
NOTE: The strength and effect of the blood vow grows in rank and may be
refreshed at any time if the weapon has already been bound.
~

#1241
-1 VIGIL~
VIGIL
Syntax: automatic
 
 As the blademaster becomes initiated into more advanced ways of focus
and meditation they gain the ability to enter a light trance in order
to rest.  When in this trance they are able to keep constant vigil on
their surroundings for approaching danger, and quickly act if desired.
 
See also: HELP COUNTER
~

#1242
-1 BATTLESPHERE 'BATTLE SPHERE'~
BATTLESPHERE
Syntax: cast 'battlesphere'
 
 Blademasters may use this mantra to enter a light trance allowing
them to empty their minds of most distractions and focus on the 
immediate sphere of battle around them.  Doing so enables them to
aim with greater accuracy, and be better able to avoid spells cast
at them.

See Also: HELP BATTLEFOCUS, BATTLETRANCE
~

#1243
-1 BATTLEFOCUS 'BATTLE FOCUS'~
BATTLEFOCUS
Syntax: cast 'battlefocus'
 
 The logical extension of battlesphere, this mantra deepens the trance
the blademaster is in, extending their perceptions beyond the primary
sense of sight.  Smell and more particularly hearing are greatly amplified
allowing the blademaster to sense incoming threats even if they are
not visible to him.
 
See Also: HELP VIGIL, COUNTER, BATTLESPHERE, BATTLETRANCE
~

#1244
-1 BATTLETRANCE 'BATTLE TRANCE'~
BATTLETRANCE
Syntax: cast 'battletrance'
 
 
  With the aid of this mantra the blademaster represses all mental
processes which do not concern the battle directly.  Their minds
enter a state normally reserved for deeply meditating monks, yet
they are able to sustain it while fighting or experiencing great
pain.  This extreme concentration boosts the senses other then
sight to such extent that they completely compensate for loss
of vision in battle.
 
See Also: HELP BATTLEFOCUS, BATTLESPHERE
~

#1245
-1 'ANATOMY EXPERTISE'~
ANATOMY EXPERTISE
 
The blademasters study the weaknesses of the body to such extent
that they may choose to concentrate on particular anatomical group.
Doing so allows them achieve greater then normal understanding of
that anatomy, and opens up new targets to strike with their critical
strike skill.
 
See Also: HELP CRITICAL STRIKE
~

#1246
-1 'ANATOMY MASTERY'~
ANATOMY MASTERY
 
The blademasters study the weaknesses of the body to such extent
that at their peak they may achieve mastery of understanding of a
particular anatomy.  Doing so greatly increases their understanding
of that body type, and opens up all critical strike targets the
expertise of this anatomy would, plus more.  A blademaster
who chooses to become expert AND mastery in particular anatomy
gains access to special critical areas not available to those
whom would only choose mastery.
See Also: HELP CRITICAL STRIKE
~

#1247
-1 BLADELORE 'BLADE LORE'~
BLADELORE
The blademasters have developed a set of ritualistic mantras which
allow their training to be focused into a particular style of fighting.
The secrets of these stances are closely guarded, and aspiring pupils
are allowed to choose the order in which to learn them.

Bladelore stances:
  Bladestorm	(double weapon)
  Ironarm	(double weapon)
  Kyousanken	(double weapon)
  Shadowdancer(two handed)
  Doomsinger	(two handed)
  Kairishi	(two handed)

You may consult the help file for each specific stance.
~

#1248
-1 IRONARM~
IRONARM
Syntax: cast 'ironarm'
 
A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two weapons.  While under
its effects the blademaster is able to his secondary blade to deflect
his opponent's weapon when trying to disarm.  This allows him to focus
and strike a powerful crippling blow at the victim's arm forcing him
to drop their weapon.  This allows the blademaster to attempt to
disarm their foe without concern for skill with the opponent's weapon.
 
See also: BLADELORE
~

#1249
-1 KYOUSANKEN~
KYOUSANKEN
Syntax: cast 'kyousanken'
 
 
A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two weapons.  While under
its effects the blademaster moves more slowly analyzing his opponent's
actions.  When an attack is made, the blademaster uses his weapons to
redirect the force of the blow lessening the damage, or incase of ranged
weapons completely deflecting it.
See also: BLADELORE
~

#1250
-1 SHADOWDANCER 'SHADOW DANCER'~
SHADOWDANCER
Syntax: cast 'shadowdancer'
 
A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two handed weapon.  While 
under its effects the blademaster begins to use the principles of
powerstrike and footwork on his own muscles and movement.  As a result
his strength becomes completly dependant on his dexterity.
See also: HELP BLADELORE
~

#1251
-1 DOOMSINGER 'DOOM SINGER'~
DOOMSINGER
Syntax: cast 'doomsinger'
 
A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two handed weapon.  While 
under its effects the blademaster further extends the principles of
powerstrike, moving and attacking in harmony with the weapon's natural
frequency.  In moments the blade begins to vibrate emitting a unique
high pitched tone as it sings with its own strength.
 
See also: HELP BLADELORE
~

#1252
-1 SNAKESPEED 'SNAKE SPEED'~
SNAKESPEED
Syntax: automatic
 
  When using a two handed weapon, the blademaster is able to 
using this skill to suddenly rush forward while striking out
with the weapon.  The attack is so fast, and so accurate that
it can be used to interrupt spells and prayers before a battle.
~

#1253
-1 KAIRISHI~
KAIRISHI
Syntax: cast 'kairishi' <weapontype>

A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two handed weapon.  While
under its effects the blademaster can mimics the movements of his
opponent's weapon, while at the same time using his own blade in a
style of another weapon type.

When in this stance your current weapon's ratings ( attack, defense,
disarm etc.) will be of the weapontype you've chosen.  Additionally
because the blademaster can mimic his opponent's weapon your skill with
your enemy's weapon is equal to the skill with your weapon.

See also: HELP BLADELORE
~

#1254
-1 PREDICT~
PREDICT
Syntax: predict <command>
 
  As they are capable of sustaining an extreme level of awareness
and focus for extended periods of time.  The blademaster may try
to watch for, and predict a particular type of attack from those
whom would seek to harm them.  Beacuse of the speed and flexibility
requried to stop such attacks, the blademaster requires two weapons
in his hands in order to execute proper counter to the predicted
attack.
~

#1255
-1 'TWIN COUNTER'~
TWIN COUNTER
Syntax: automatic
 
  The blademasters attacks and movement are quick enough that
if wielding two weapons they may attempt to strike twice when
countering an opening attack.
 
See also: HELP COUNTER
~

#1256
-1 BATTLESTANCE 'BATTLE STANCE'~
BATTLESTANCE
Syntax: high: raise weapon high
	low: lower weapons
	normal: normal weapon position
 
  This skill represents the baldemaster's growing knowledge of
swordplay and fencing.  Not only does the use of battlestance
allow for quick movement and attacks in battle, but it also
enables the user to choose particular weapon height.  When
held higher, it is easier to attack and land blows but harder
to defend.  Opposite is true for lower position of weapons.
~

#1257
-1 DEATHSTRIKE 'DEATH STRIKE'~
DEATHSTRIKE
Syntax: automatic
 
  Often driven by fierce honor and pride, many Blademasters
would rather die then be dishonored in battle.  Once a 
blademaster achieves high enough rank, they may attempt to
end their own life in battle rather the be struck down.
~

#1258
-1 'AVATAR OF STEEL'~
AVATAR OF STEEL
Syntax: automatic
 
  When a blademaster truly masters his own mind and body
he may achieve oneness with his weapon unknown to any other
warrior.  Those whom have seen the display of swordplay
shown by such masters are often stunned by the beauty and
serenity present in such perfect union of flesh and steel.
~

#1259
-1 SPELLKILLER 'SPELL KILLER'~
SPELLKILLER
Syntax: spellkill <spell>
 
  As he approaches the pinnacle, a Blademaster's movements,
mind and focus is so accurate and keen as to allow him to
to sense and understand the forces of arcane on innate level.
Striking with unbelievable speed and accuracy they become
capable of cutting the very fabric of magic apart destabilizing
spells as they are cast.  Because of the speed, reach and power
required for this attack, only two handed weapons will allow
the blademaster to execute it.
~

#1260
-1 'BLADE STORM' BLADESTORM~
BLADESTORM
Syntax: cast 'bladestorm'

A ritualistic stance meant to be used with two weapons.  While under
its effects the blademaster focuses on agility and offense with less
regard for defense.  As a result he becomes to move as quickly as if
he were under effects of haste spell, though the armor class is increased
as a result.
 
See Also: HELP BLADELORE
~

#1261
-1 LOCKER STASH RETRIEVE~
LOCKER STASH RETRIEVE
Syntax: stash purchase: purchase a locker
	stash: view locker info
	stash <item>: store an item in your locker
	retrieve <item>: retrieve an item from your locker
 
  The bank of Aabahran allow anyone to purchase and use a locker
to store items in the safety of their vaults.  Once a locker is
purchased you may store items in it at any time for a cost.  You
can retrieve an item only in person however.
 
For storing your items the bank deducts from your account the sum of 
all object's levels divided by two, or 500 gold whichever is higher.  This sum is
paid once per Aabahran month.
~

#1262
-1 Moleran~
Unlike many other gods, Moleran believes that one should always speak the 
truth. This is most likely the reason why mortals have been able to glean 
information about him in the most direct way possible: face-to-face 
conversations. From the many talks he has had with the "little ones" the 
following has become common knowledge: 
 
Moleran claims that he was once an angel in another plane of existence. 
This place, he says, was like no other. All that was sentient lived 
together in harmony. No blood was ever shed; no tear ever fell from one's 
eyes. Sorrow, terror, pain, anguish... Such words did exist. But only as 
abstract thoughts and meaningless words in books. Few truly knew and 
understood what they mean. 
 
This near-perfect existence came to an abrupt end. In ways that Moleran 
has not been able to ascertain, someone was able to open a direct portal 
between his world and that of the demon-kin. Countless monstrosities and 
numberless horrors poured through, intent on only one thing: destruction. 
Having never confronted this kind of situation, Moleran's superiors became 
convinced that one should fight fire with fire. Weapons were created, their 
forms based on the ones used by the demons. Strategies for slaughter were 
devised, all in the hope of turning back the demonic army. 
 
Suffice to say, the Rift triumphed. 
 
What happened to his fellow angels Moleran says he does not know. He 
spends much time searching for them, turning his gaze from one dimension to 
another, from one world to the next. All Moleran does know is that when the 
final battle ended in a cataclysmic explosion, he awoke here. In Aabahran. 
To his despair, Moleran saw that his old enemies have also invaded this 
land. Beings called "undead" exist here, an afront to all that is Life. Some 
of the mortals here even worship death and warfare, creating guilds and cabals 
to safeguard their dark ways. 
 
Yet, there is hope. There are those who seek a life free from violence. 
Innocent children who do not wish to grow up into bloodthirty warriors. 
Happy mothers who wish only the best for their families. Hard-working 
fathers who toil daily in the fields. These people wish peace, and little 
else. Moleran saw this, took pity, and decided to stay. Rising to the
heavens, he declared himself the Serenity Incarnate, Bringer of Peace.
~

#1263
0 quickling~
QUICKLING

Quicklings are often mistaken for elven children due to their pointed ears
and small stature, but that doesn't stop most people from grabbing their
money sack in fear when they notice a Quickling's characteristic wrinkles
and outlandish clothing.  Quicklings are consumate thieves - though most get
quite offended if this is suggested.  Quickling simply have little grasp on
the concept of personal property, and are naturally good at picking locks
and pockets.  As such, they are often known to remark "Here, you must have
dropped this!"  Or "Ooops, this door seems stuck!"  Without realizing their
amazing natural skills.  

Unrelated, Quicklings are biologically immune to fear.  This is good; they
never run in panic.  This is bad; they never run in panic.  Many a Quickling
has stood its ground against a charging dragon, giant, or the like, thinking
"Gee, he looks mad...."  

A Quickling has a similar lifespan to a human, but at the onset of
adolescence, Quickling become infected with a condition which seems to force
them to travel the world.  Due to their boldness, there are few old
Quickling.  
 
Quicklings can be the following classes:
Warrior, Invoker, Battlemage, Bard
~

#1264
-1 goblin~
GOBLINS

Long ago, a group of Quicklings grew tired of the thievery and adolescense
of their brethern, so when an oppurtunity to form a colony arose, they
jumped at the chance to be amongst its foundation.  They had a singe goal-
to bring respect to the name of the Quickling, but they were a little too
lenient on where they'd settle.  

Their now home was more of an expiriment than a settlement.  They were asked
to live in houses built onto the inside of a volcano, in hopes that they
could capture the power they did not understand.  After centuries of living
in the volcano, it erupted...  Three out of every four Quickling was dead.. 
The others were burned beyond recognition.  They crawled, quite literally,
back to their Quickling brothers.  They found their old home...  But when
they arrived, their first party was taken into custody.  

The Quicklings, you see, did not recognize their brothers.  The Quicklings
were not a scholarly people...  So upon seeing these burnt creatures rise
out of the volcano, they believed them to be demons.  The Quickling,
however, sent emissaries to their only ally: the faeries, who could not come
to see the beasts and advised that the beasts probably were demons and
should be immediately executed.  And so it was.  The faeries eventually
realized their mistake...  At which point they tracked down the remaining
disfigured Quickling and used their magic to heal their wounds artificially,
but something went terribly wrong and the result was the most hideous thing
in existance: Goblins.  

Goblins can be the following classes:
Warrior, Invoker, Battlemage, Bard
~

#0