#1
-1 ! REPEAT~
! 

Syntax: ! repeats the last command you typed.      
~

#2
-1 TRAPS +~
TRAPS

  Due to thieves natural willingness to lend their services to anyone with
enough gold, the land of Mirlan is riddled with various traps ranging from the
harmless to the deadly in their construction and placement.

 A trap may be present on any object, path or door leading from or to a room
and when spotted is represented by the symbol `!+`` appearing beside an object
or exit.  An exit can further be looked at by using the "examine" or "look"
commands.

  The chances to spot a trap before setting it off are decided by your wisdom,
and more reliably, the proficiency in the Detect Hidden skill. Thieves being 
quite used to these devices get a bonus towards detection.

 Any object or exit may be checked for traps and defused if one is found.
This is accomplished by using the "defuse" command.  If successful the trap
will be disarmed and destroyed if it was created by another player.

  Most of the traps in Mirlan are created by the Thieves Guild and are maintained
by them.  Those traps cannot be removed, and will re-arm and re-set periodically.

 The traps set and created by freelance thieves/players once disarmed or
tripped are usually removed.  Traps also obey the PK ranges and cannot be
seen, defused or tripped by those outside of their owner's PK range.

See also: THIEF TRAPS, DEFUSE, DETECT HIDDEN, PK
~

#3
-1 DEFUSE~
DEFUSE

Syntax:	defuse (obj)	     : attempts to defuse a trap on object.
	defuse (direction)   : attempts to defuse a trap on path or door.

  The Thieves Guild, Cartel, free lancer's and others delight in lending its
services out to anyone with enough gold to pay so the land of Mirlan is riddled
with such traps.  When a trap is spotted, you may attempt to defuse it using
this command.  Depending on your rank and wisdom you may or may not defuse it. 

Those actually skilled in defusing traps have a skilled chance of spotting and
defusing the deadly contraptions then their unskilled brethren.

See also: TRAPS
~

#4
-1 SHEATH DRAW~
SHEATH

Syntax: sheath	: sheathes your weapons if possible.
	draw	: draws your weapons if possible.

  Any profession in Mirlan has ability to sheath their weapons.  When sheathed
their weapons are placed in sheathes or hidden positions depending on one's
profession.  Sheathed weapons will be drawn automatically in an event of combat
or by choice with use of 'draw' command.

  The sheathing of weapons is a sign of good intentions.  The LAW cabal
also requires that all weapons be sheathed in cities/areas under their control
with the promises of heavy fines otherwise.

  Also, while your weapons are sheathed you will not automatically 
engage in combat when your group does nor will you be able to 'murder' (PK)
others.  Weapons may be sheathed and drawn automatically in cities with
use of 'autosheath'.

See also: AUTOSHEATH, DOUBLESHEATH

~

#5
-1 SOCKET SOCKETS ADORN ADORNMENTS~
SOCKETS

Syntax: GET <SOCKET> FROM <ITEM>
        PUT <SOCKET> IN <ITEM>

  There are certain items within the realms that which are considered
'socketable' items. This means that a small clasp or setting has been forged
into a weapon or piece of armor in which a 'socketed piece' can be affixed
or placed into.

  A socket can be anything from gemstones to spikes and can be found all over
the lands in varyious locations. Certain socketable items can only fit in
certain items and give that item the properties of that socketed item. There
are also certain socketable items that once affixed, can never be removed from
the socket.
~

#6
-1 AREAS AREA COMMANDS COMMAND REPORT SCORE TIME WEATHER~
AREAS COMMANDS REPORT SCORE TIME WEATHER

Syntax: areas
Syntax: commands
Syntax: report
Syntax: score
Syntax: time
Syntax: weather

AREAS show you a list of areas in the game.

COMMANDS
 Show you all the commands in the game.

REPORT 
Shows your current statistics to you and also announces them to other
players in the room.

SCORE 
Shows you a much more detailed statistics to you only.  Your ability
scores are shown to you as the current value so for example Str: 15(23) means
you have a 15 strength from training, but a 23 strength from other factors
(spells or items carried).

TIME
Shows you game time, the time the mud was last started and the current local
time for the host computer.

WEATHER
Shows you the current game weather of your area.
~

#7
-1 LAW LAWS~
Text:

Syntax: law

The law command will check and report if the area you are in is protected by
laws of LAW, and how severe are the various crimes in eyes of local royalty. 

CRIME TYPES:
SHEATH:   The possession of unsheated weapon in lawful area.
LOOTING:  The removal of items from any player corpse.
THEFT:    The use of thief skills to rob, steal, or pry items from a victim.
ASSAULT:  An attack upon any mobile within area.
MURDER:   An attack (including spells like summon) upon any player in an area.
OBSTRUCTION: An assault, attempted theft or murder on any member of THE LAW. 

ATTENTION: It is against the law to have an unsheathed weapon within any lawful
area.  For the details on crimes, and LAW conduct, seek the LAW Codex located
at the entrance to LAW Cabal.  Also be warned that any complaints or grievances
regarding the LAW Cabal should be directed towards the Elders/Leader of said
cabal.  `!NOT TO THE IMMORTALS!``  Bothering the Immortals with petty problems will
result in larger problems for you.  

See also: HELP CRIMES, LAW, SHEATH, SURRENDER, WANTED
~

#8
-1 DICE~
Syntax: dice

This command will roll a six sided dice and reports random number.
~

#9
-1 CLAN CLANS~
CLAN

Mirlan offers clan related commands to help those players run the clans
that have established themselves with the ability to operate without help.
These requirements have to be fulfilled in order for a clan to gain "official"
status.

- The clan must have operated by itself for some time.
- The leader must have sent an application to immortals and been approved. 

Clan commands:

Syntax: clan draft   <person>: will draft a person into a clan.
	clan remove  <person>: will remove a person from the clan.
	clan promote <person>: promotes a clan member.
	clan demote  <person>: demotes a clan member.
	clan <list/Rank/Sen> : will sort/list members (only top 16 are shown). 

Notes, applications, changes to any clan may be addressed by using its name.
     To use the clantalk channel use "cc" <message>

Clan ranks are: 
(I) Inductee, (M) Member, (V) Veteran, (T) Trusted, (E) Elder, (L) Leader
~

#10
51 CLAN CLANS~
FURTHER IMMORTAL CLAN OPTIONS:

Syntax:
clan create <clan>         : Will create a new clan.
clan delete <clan>         : Will delete a clan and its member data.
clan <list/rank/sen> <clan>: Will sort and lists members by pts/rank/sen>.
clan list clans            : Will list all the clans in the game.
brown <victim>             : Will award brownie points.
allow <victim>             : Will allow a person to apply to your clan's cabal.
allow <vctim> <clan>       : This is the same as above but for specific clan.

ATTENTION: All clan commands can be used when/if the target is offline!
~

#11
-1 'SKILL SELECT' SELECT~
SKILL SELECT

SKILL SELECTION:

  A number of classes and races offer the opportunity for a player to customize
their class through the selection of skills as the character progresses through
advancing levels.  Many of the skills are linked in a "tree" fashion where the
choices you make early on can drastically affect the skills available to you at
a later time.  Skill selection is offered at specific levels marked on the skill
sheet by the names of a group of skills in which selections may be made.

To enter the skill selection mode after a group of skills is available to you 
can use the "select" command.

SKILL SELECT MODE:

  Once you enter the skill selection mode.  Normal game commands will cease
to function and only the SKILL SELECTION (SS) commands will work.

quit		:Returns you to normal mode.
help		:Shows this help file.
help <topic>	:Shows help on topic.
select <skill>	:Selects the skill and adds it to your skill set.
<enter>		:Displays the SS screen and available choices.
forfeit		:Permanently skips the category, in case of no valid choices in
                 a given group.

REQUIREMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS:

  The list of available choices is color coded in order to better reflect
choices available to you.

`2Green``:Skill is available  (You've met requirements if any).
`1Red``	 :Skill is not available because you do not have skill/s that are
          needed as a pre-requisite.
`8Dark`` :Skill is not available as you already have it OR another skill you
           posses prevents its choice.

  Once you have used up all your choices in each grouping you will be returned
to normal mode.  You can quit and return at anytime but only the first
available SS group will be available to you.

See also: HELP SKILL
~

#12
-1 'CABAL RULES'~
THE CARDINAL RULES OF CABAL CONDUCT

Congratulations on your acceptance into your new Cabal. 

  Before you proceed, it is important that you read and understand the list of
dos and don'ts for your specific Cabal.

  The following is a compiled list of rules and regulations regarding all cabal
conduct. This list applies to ALL CABALS, without exception and should be 
strictly adhereded to. Failure on your part to follow any of these rules can
result in termination of cabal status with or without notice!

GENERAL RULES OF CONDUCT:

1. Cabal members are the elite of the lands. They are the superior players, 
role-players and people who know the land and their characters.  They are
usually the movers and shakers of the world.  You have worked hard to get your
character where they are and have been admitted into a cabal of your choosing. 

  You are a role model and your conduct should reflect this at ALL TIMES. All
Cabal members are expected to have excellent role-play. AT NO TIME will ANY
Cabal member breach their role-play for ANY reason with the exception of
speaking with an Immortal. That is the only exception to this rule.

2. You are a part of an organization and like any organization.  Your status in
any cabal depends on your actions and conduct. `!You can be terminated from a
cabal for any reason at any time by your cabal elders.`` A reason does not have
to be given.  Some reasons for this occurrence may be: 

  Breach of role-playing.
  Failure to carry out specific cabal duties/orders.
  Failure to uphold the values set forth by your cabal.
  Failure to appear on a regular basis.

These are not the only reasons just a few examples.

LEADERSHIP:

  Your cabal will have a designated Elder or Leader. These people have worked
very hard to attain their cabal status and should be given all due respect.
As well all cabals are governed by an Immortal. This Immortal is the absolute
final power within the cabal. Orders given by Leader or Elders are to be
adhered to. Failure to do so or extended disrespect to Elders or Leaders can
result in termination/expulsion from the cabal.

CABAL CONFIDENTIALITY:

 You may not share any written or spoken words that dictate the effects,
lists, or abilities of any cabal to any non-cabal member. Cabal skills are
highly coveted abilities and should only be shared between cabal members.
Likewise, you may not tell of, give, sell or trade ANY cabal equipment or
items with anyone not of your own cabal. 

  There is more information on this in the RULES OF ENGAGEMENT section.
Any breach of these will result in termination/expulsion from the cabal.

CABAL POINTS:

 Cabal points are the currency your cabal uses that fuels you special skills,
abilities, purchase equipment and supplies. The points are give automatically
on each tick as well given out for cabal duties.

THE CABAL SACRED ITEM:

  Your cabal sacred item represents the source of your pride and power of your
cabal.  Ensuring that it remains within the confines of your cabal is a duty
of all cabal members.  It is the highest priority above all other tasks you may
have as that cabal memeber.  Ignoring attacks on your cabal, cabal guardian or
altar will result in expulsion from the cabal.

SUMMARY:

These are GENERAL rules of cabal behavior which will apply to ALL CABALS. 

  Certain cabals will have extended rules of conduct, and you should
familiarize yourself with them as well. 

  One last note.  Remember, character alignment and ethos supercede a cabal
affiliation. This means that the rules of your alignment and your ethos must be
followed before following the rules of the cabal. Keep this, and all cabal
rules in mind. 
~

#13
-1 ALIGN ALIGNMENT ETHOS~
ALIGNMENT ETHOS

See:  HELP GOOD
      HELP EVIL
      HELP NEUTRAL


~

#14
-1 CRAFT CRAFTCLASS NPK NON-PK NONPK NONLETHAL~
CRAFT CRAFTCLASS NPK NON-PK NONPK NONLETHAL

Characters can be what we call Non-PK classes.  These are classes that cannot
initiate combat with other player characters.  However a PK class can attack
you.  When that happens you will take damage.  If a non-PK class is attacked
and damage is taken, it will take the non-PK class down only to 1 hit point.
Then the non-PK class will fall unconscious but will not perish.

A non-PK class can die to monsters (mobs).  A non-PK class can attack monsters.
However the majority of experience points gained for the non-PK classes is
gained through interaction with players.  Monsters (mobs) CAN KILL A NON-PK.

Experience is gained in several ways.
  Creating items for others.
  Doing a job for others.
  Buying and selling items.
  Using their skills/spells.
  Among other ways.  

The non-PK classes at first glance appear weak and one wonders why one would
want to play a non-PK class.  The answer is simple.  Power, role-playing,
status, fun and in Mirlan, the non-PK class is very important to the way the
world works and operates.  You will find that the best gear and magic are
created by the non-PK classes from which PK classes will need to seek out
and buy, trade, extort from.

You will not find "the best gear or items" in the lands.  These items are
created by the non-PK classes.  Oh, yes indeed.  Some of the most powerful
movers and shakers in Mirlan will be the non-PK classes.

For individual non-PK classes see the helps for them:

MINER, JEWELER, TAILOR, ALCHEMIST, BLACKSMITH
~

#15
-1 FESTIVAL FESTIVALS HOLIDAY HOLIDAYS~
MAJOR FESTIVALS AND HOLIDAYS OF MIRLAN

  The Western Realms have a plethora of holidays, most of them based on moon 
phases and the seasons. The major festivals are celebrated, at least in some
degree, by every civilized nation known as well as by numerous demi-human and
primitive communities. A list of the major festivals and their dates is shown
below, listed chronologically.

New Year's Day                  Jaminatine 1
Spring Equinox                  Jaminatine 20
First Night of Goodwill         Lojanitine 15
First Night of the Three Lamps  Amathetine 30
Summer Solstice                 Wynnatine 20
Midsummer's Eve                 Wynnatine 30
Midsummer's Day                 Rhumatine 1
First Night of the One Lamp     Rhumatine 15
Night of Sorrow                 Beronitine 30
Autumnal Equinox                Arondatine 20
Second Night of the One Lamp    Hametine 15
Second Night of the Three Lamps Shalmatine 30
Winter Solstice                 Lanatine 20
Second Night of Goodwill        Sythetine 15
Festival of Lights              Rasazratine 30

DESCRIPTION OF HOLIDAYS/EVENTS

NEW YEARS DAY 
  This festival, coming on the morning after the Festival of Lights, is a
peaceful and introspective one. Celebrations begin soon after dawn and 
last until nightfall. Prayers are offered to many deities, notably Wyhame 
and Dormicc, for a good year to come. Most shops are closed for the day 
but inns and taverns remain open and are usually filled with patrons. Small
tokens of affection are given to close friends.

SPRING EQUINOX
  Celebrated mostly in rural areas, the spring equinox is sacred to Gaemena, 
Ejamena, Wyhame, and Lojani. It is held as a time of growth, prosperity, and 
abundance. Religious observations differ according to region and the deities 
being worshiped.

NIGHT OF GOODWILL
  The Nights of Goodwill occur when Aeete is three-quarters full. On these 
nights, friends and comrades gather about to drink, eat, and remember old 
times.  Gifts are bestowed between good friends and families. The night is holy
to Amathe, Arondos, and Moiwen.

THE NIGHT OF THE THREE LAMPS
  The two Three Lamp festivals occur on the second brightest nights of the 
year. On these two evenings, both Haeya, the pale moon also called 
"the Mother" and Ixtare, the red moon known as "the Blood Moon," are full. 
Adding further to the lunar illumination is Aeete, which is also referred to 
as "the Hidden One," which is at its half waning stage for the first festival 
and its half waxing stage for the second. This festival is the rowdiest and 
most boisterous one celebrated in the world. For various reasons, it is a 
religious day of significance to Ixtaros, Arondos, Madshem, Rhuma, and 
Hoiwynnas. The celebrations begin at dusk and last deep into the night, often
until dawn in most urban areas. Feasting and drinking occur with great gusto, 
along with other vices such as gambling, seduction, and contests and bets of
all manners. Most rulers give some gifts to their subjects, such as food, a few
coins, or pardons for offenses. Most rulers also submit to "Fool's Folly," the 
ancient tradition of appearing in public at midnight and enduring all manner of
insults throughout the next hour.

SUMMER SOLSTICE
  Like the other solstices and equinoxes, the Summer Solstice is celebrated
primarily in rural communities. This day is holy to Gaemena, Ejamena, Lojani, 
Wyhame, and Beronor. During this festival, the joy of life and thanks for 
prosperity are given to Nature and the other deities. Again, specific rituals 
vary with the regions and faiths followed.

MIDSUMMER'S FEAST (EVE AND DAY) 
  Rather akin to the Summer Solstice in spirit, these two days are celebrated
by most everyone, urban and rural alike. It is a holy event for Arondos and
Dabuyla; magic is at its highest potency on this night. All spells cast have
full effect and all magically-induced saving throws are at -4. All Faerie
creatures are at maximum hit points and powers. These benefits last from sundown
until the dawning of Midsummer's Day. Celebrations are usually in the open air
and take the form of dances, balls, and gaiety. The next day, Midsummer's Day,
is a time of picnics, romance, and love. The day is holy to Amathe. 

Traditionally, arranged marriages are made on this day, and in rural
communities, women are given total control and no one may refuse their wishes.

THE NIGHTS OF THE ONE LAMP
  The two darkest nights of the year are designated One Lamp festivals, for
only a quarter crescent of Aeete casts light of this black time. It is a time
of death and evil, a festival rather forgotten. Many deities hold this night
sacred: Noyrlz, Morgorin, Sythe, and Ulwarzi. During the day, songs are sung of
old heroes, bygone times, and legends. Gifts are placed on the graves of the
deceased and prayers offered for their place in the afterlife. At sundown, this
ceases and most people seek shelter, for, with the setting sun, the dead arise.
On this night the undead are all-powerful.  

NIGHT OF SORROW
  When Haeya and Ixtare are both full but Aeete shrouded, then it is time for
the Night of Sorrow. This night is holy to Markyl, Moiwen, and Rasazra. It is
a time of confession and absolution, a time to make peace with enemies and ask
forgiveness for all transgressions. Most all facilities are closed on this
night; it is spent in prayer and solitude for the most part. Most rulers allow
generous pardons of this night.

AUTUMNAL EQUINOX 
  This day honors the harvest of crops and abundance. It is sacred to Wyhame,
Madshem, and Rhuma. It otherwise corresponds to other solstices and equinoxes.

WINTER SOLSTICE
A time of dark and suffering. This night is holy to Morgorin and Sythe. It
elebrates the death of the year and the dark of the winter night. See the other
equinoxes and solstices for details.

THE FESTIVAL OF LIGHTS 
  Only once per year do all three moons become full at the same time. On this
day, the most sacred festival occurs, the Festival of Lights. No business is
conducted this day; it is spent in play and frivolity. The day is full of joy
and mischief but at nightfall, the air becomes solemn. Then it is time to honor
any and all deities for their guidance and intercession into mankind's affairs.
It is traditional to visit as many temples as possible before dawn, thanking
each deity. For example, thanking Morgorin for not taking the soul of a sick
child, thanking Wyhame for the birth of a baby, etc. At dawn, this festival
becomes New Year's Day and the year repeats itself.

~

#16
-1 MIRLAN WORLD~
ABOUT MIRLAN

  Mirlan (MEER-lahn) is the name given to the known world, a great sphere 
some 15,300 miles in circumference.    Civilization on this globe is 
mainly found on one great continent, Darengal, located in the northern 
hemisphere.  Within this landmass, the majority of people there have 
settled along its western edge and so the nations and states found there 
are collectively known as the Western Realms.

  Celestially, Mirlan occupies the third orbit out from its sun Ber 
(though the belief is that the Sun circles Mirlan) and circles that body 
every 360 days.  Mirlan itself is orbited by three satellites, the closest 
of which is Maete (MY-tay).  Maete, called the Mother, is a white body 
that appears to be the size of a disc of 25 mm (quarter) viewed from an 
outstretched arm, and completes an orbit around Mirlan every 30 days: its 
fullness marks the end of each month of the year.  The next moon is Ixtare 
(icks-TAHR-ray), the Blood Moon.  This red body appears the size of a disc 
20 mm (nickel) extended arms length and orbits Mirlan four times a year on 
a 90-day cycle coinciding with the end of the seasons.  The last satellite 
is the elusive Yulate (YOOL-luh-tay), the Secret One, which shows its pale 
blue fullness only once on the final night of the year.  Yulate appears in 
the night sky to be the size of a 15 mm disc held at arms length (penny).  
The cycles of the moons determine the timing of the major festivals of the 
Western Realms.

  The moons of Mirlan share the night sky with six planets, each 
thought to be sacred to a god or goddess.  They are the green Jamate the 
Huntress, the yellow Rondate the Bard, the copper hued Markate, the fiery 
red Warzate and larger Jumate, and the blue Saete.  These bodies wander 
through the heavens and are much used in the science of astrology.
~

#17
-1 BORDER MARCHES BORDERMARCHES~
THE BORDER MARCHES

Capital(s):  

Lemminter
Rocksbay
Myrlsport
Revelsport 

  The lands between the Lesser Raider Mountains and the Sabre River were 
first settled by tribes of Paylens fleeing their Esterian conquerors 
around 350 MZ.  Most of the tribes attempted to rebuild the life they had 
known in their old lands, building villages and growing food.  However, 
several others banded together and came to dwell within the reaches of the 
Roenawoed Forest.  Over time they became uncivilized and reverted to a 
primitive way of life.  Their descendants today are the barbarians known 
as the Woedmen or Wildmen.

 For the vast majority of the refuges life soon returned to its 
normal pace in their new country.  But there was to be little peace for 
the Paylens.  Sixty years after the conquest of the Paylens homeland, the 
Kingdom of Paleganor was founded (YK 1).  Over the next hundred years 
raids from the new kingdom increased until they became armies of conquest 
once again.  By YK 119, history had repeated itself and once more the 
Paylens were under a foreign yoke.
	
  This time fleeing the lands was not an option.  For in the east 
100 years earlier the Kingdom of Grayldemir had begun expansion beyond the 
Narryl River.  By the time Paleganese troops reached the Sabre River, its 
eastern banks were firmly settled and what had once been the Kingdom of 
Greldymir was now the mighty Eastern Empire.  The stage was now set for 
the First War of the Empires.

  Over the next 600 years armies marches across the plains as the 
Empires clashed, rested, and clashed again.  The Border Marches kept their 
racial identity and saw both empires as invaders into their country.  
Constant war, along with a host of other problems, had weakened both 
powers sufficiently that in YK 720, the various lords on the area rose up 
in rebellion.  For two years Western Imperial troops battled with the 
rebels, who received much support from the Eastern Empire.  Finally, 
exhausted and collapsing under its own weight, the Western Empire ceded 
all land east of the Raider Mountains.  With this action, the empire 
ceased to be and the remaining lands were called the Kingdom of Palinor.  
However, freedom was gained at such a price that no rebel lord would 
surrender his authority to another.  And so the major cities of the 
marches became Free Cities, each alternately trading and making war 
against the others.

  The fledgling states gained a new enemy in YK 913 when the once 
mighty Theocracy of Darhelm turned to evil.  Aided by both its former 
enemies, the Border Marches funded two crusades against Darhelm.  Owing in 
large part to ancient grudges between the three and poor organization of 
their vastly differing army structures, both actions were a dismal 
failure.  The only lasting effect they were to achieve was to turn the 
once fertile lands between the Narryl and Shade Rivers into a wasteland 
still known as the Scarred Lands.  In YK 1030 Darhelm unleashed the 
Scarlet Horde into the Marches and great suffering and loss of life and 
property ensued before the host finally retreated back across the Saber.  
A second invasion, the Horde of Flames, attacked in YK 1167 and yielded 
equally devastating results.

  Currently, the March Lords vie against one another through various 
means both military and economic.  Faced with constant internal strife and 
fear of another invasion, the Marches are a chaotic and unpredictable 
place.
~

#18
-1 PRAY YELL~
PRAY YELL

Syntax: pray     <message>
Syntax: yell     <message>

PRAY sends a message to the gods.  However, use caution.  The Immortals are 
not to be trifled with, and can often be very unhappy if pointlessly
disturbed.

YELL sends a message to all those awake within your area.

Type a channel name by itself to turn it off.
~

#19
-1 AUTO AUTOLIST AUTOLOOT AUTOGOLD AUTOSAC AUTOEXIT AUTOASSIST AUTOSPLIT AUTOSEX 
AUTOSHEATH AUTOAIM 'AUTO AIM' AUTOALIAS~
AUTO AUTOLIST AUTOLOOT AUTOGOLD AUTOSAC AUTOEXIT AUTOASSIST AUTOSPLIT

To ease the boredom of always splitting gold or sacrificing corpses many
functions are automated.  The commands are as follows:

AUTOAIM	  : controls autoaiming for MOB/PC/OBJ.
autosex	  : shows the sex of player with 'whois' command.
autosheath: automatically sheathes and draws weapons when moving between cities.
autocabal : allows to display your cabal to all players on "who" list.
autoalias : Turns alias conversion on/off.
autoexp   : prevents gaining any kind of positive experience.
autosplit : split up spoils from combat among your group members.
autoassit : makes you help group members in combat.
autolist  : list all automatic actions.
autoloot  : take all equipment from dead creatures.
autogold  : take all gold from dead creatures.
autosac   : sacrifice dead creatures (if autoloot is on, only empty corpses).
autoexit  : display room exits upon entering a room.

Typing a command sets the action, typing it again removes it.
~

#20
-1 BRANDISH QUAFF RECITE ZAP USE~
BRANDISH QUAFF RECITE ZAP USE

Syntax: brandish
Syntax: zap
Syntax: quaff    <potion>
Syntax: recite   <scroll> <target>
Syntax: zap      <target>
Syntax: use	 <object>

USE automatically brandishes/zaps/uses magical items.

BRANDISH brandishes a magical staff to cast a spell (affects a whole
group/area)

QUAFF quaffs a magical potion (as opposed to DRINK, which drinks mundane
liquids).

RECITE recites a magical scroll; the <target> is optional, depending on the
nature of the scroll.

ZAP zaps a magical wand at a target.  If the target is not specified, and you
are fighting someone, then that character is used for a target.

You must hold a wand or a staff before using brandish or zap.

Most of these commands use up their objects.  Potions and scrolls have a
single charge.  Wands and staves have multiple charges.  When a magical
object has no more charges, it will be destroyed.

These commands may require an item skill to be successful, see the help
entries on the skills scrolls, staves, and wands for more information.

You may not quaff potions or recite scrolls while in combat.
~

#21
-1 BRIEF COMPACT~
BRIEF COMPACT

Syntax: brief
Syntax: compact

Brief and compact help set your display options for the game.  Typing BREIF
toggles on and off the showing of room descriptions when you move around
and typing COMPACT removes the extra blank line before your prompt.
~

#22
-1 SOLAR SOLARS~
SOLAR SOLARS

  Solars are creatures of the light of good, who fight the evil 
of the Lords of Strife and their minions.  They are the right hands of
the Gods and Goddesses whom they serve. 

  Solars are messengers of the deities they serve, avenging angels
and harbingers of the power of good.  With their path come several strong
abilities and enhancements that grant them great strength over the minions of
the Lords of Strife.

  If you are of pure goodness and light, feel you exemplify the virtues of the
deities of good, then scribe a well written application to Tiradel.  In it
state your history, events that shaped your life and a philosophy you follow. 

See also: HELP SOLAR REQUIREMENTS
~

#23
-1 BUG IDEA TYPO~
These commands will take your message and record it into a file as feedback
to the mud implementors.  This is a world in which is interactive, to make it
the best world/MUD, players are the ones that make that possible.  No matter
how well designed, coded, spell checked, thought out, it still can be better.
Players are what make the world go round, not... the Immortals.  Without player
input, no MUD/world will be successful.  Something we here at The Age of Mirlan
desire to be, successful.  With your help as players we can be that.

This doesn't mean every idea will be inserted.  We do have to maintain world
integrity but all ideas will be considered.  Typos will be fixed as soon as
we can get to them and bugs will as well.  Remember, exploiting a bug is
considered cheating.  Please do not cheat.  While some may find that expoliting
a bug to gain advantage makes their character more powerful just think how you
would feel if someone were doing it to your character.  

Winning is not killing other characters or the mobs.  Winning is living in and
as a part of the world.  Even, dying, properly role-played can be something for
the bards and muses to write and sing about.  Making history and in some ways
becoming immortalized in the world.  (Not too much differnt from real life).
~

#24
-1 BUY LIST SELL VALUE BROWSE~
BUY LIST SELL VALUE

Syntax: buy   <object>
Syntax: buy # <objects>
Syntax: sell  <object>
Syntax: browse <object>
Syntax: value <object>
Syntax: list

BUY buys an object from the first shopkeeper in the same room as you.  When
multiple items of the same name are listed, type 'buy n.item', where "n"
is the position of the item in a list of that name.  So if there are two
swords, buy 2.sword will buy the second.  You can buy 3 sword by using
buy 3 sword.

BROWSE will attempt to show you some information on the object depending
on what skills or abilities you posses.

LIST lists the objects the shopkeeper will sell you.  List <name> shows you
only objects of that name.

SELL sells an object to a shopkeeper.

VALUE asks the shopkeeper how much he, she, or it will buy the item for.
~

#25
-1 CAST CASTING~
CAST

Syntax: cast <spell> <target>

Before you can cast a spell, you have to practice it.  The more you practice,
the higher chance you have of success when casting.  Casting spells uses
mana.  The mana use decreases as your level increases.

The <target> is sometimes optional.  Many spells which need targets will use an
appropriate default target, especially during combat.

If the spell name is more than one word, then you must quote the spell name.

Example: cast 'cure critic' frog

NOTE:  The `!'``  is the single quotation mark NOT the shifted quotation `!"``

Quoting is optional for single-word spells.  You can abbreviate the spell name.
When you cast an offensive spell, the victim usually gets a saving throw.
The effect of the spell is reduced or eliminated if the victim makes the
saving throw successfully.  Casting an offensive spell on yourself will
result in memory impairment for you to cast that spell in the future lowering
your skill in the spell.

See also the help sections for individual spells.
~

#26
-1 COMMUNE~
COMMUNE

Syntax: commune <supplication> <target>

There are certain classes in the realm which dedicate their lives in the
service of god(s).  As a reward, the deities have granted the faithful a
special ability called Commune.  This privilege allows the communer to
channel power directly from the heaven or nether-realms and use them to
their ends.  Since they are mentally communicating with the gods, they
have no need to utter words like mages to invoke their power.

If the spell name is more than one word, then you must quote the spell name.

Example: commune 'cure light wounds' Buddy : Heals person named buddy.
Example: commune 'cure light wounds'       : Heals yourself.

NOTE:  The `!'``  is the single quotation mark NOT the shifted quotation `!"``

As with all skills, one must first practice the supplication before one is
able to communicate with the god effectively.  The more one communes a
particular supplication, the better they will become at it.  Due to its
mental strain, communing supplications depletes your mana, however, as you
raise in rank most supplications will not be as taxing on the mind.

Paladins, Clerics, Healers, and Shamans commune to use magic/spells.

See also the help sections for individual supplications.
~

#27
-1 CB~
CB

The CB toggle turns off your cabal channel (if you are in a cabal).  You will
not be able to hear what your cabal mates say over the channel if you set the
channel off.  You can type it again to toggle the channel on so you can
communicate with your cabal mates through the channel once again.
~

#28
-1 COMPARE~
COMPARE

Syntax: compare <object-1> <object-2>
Syntax: compare <object>

COMPARE compares two objects in your inventory.  If both objects are weapons,
it will report the one with the better average damage.  If both objects are
armor, it will report the one with the better armor class.

COMPARE with one argument compares an object in your inventory to the object
you are currently wearing or wielding of the same type.

COMPARE doesn't consider any special modifiers of the objects.
~

#29
-1 CONSIDER CON~
CONSIDER

Syntax: consider <character>
        con <character> or <mob>

CONSIDER tells you what your chances are of killing a character.  Of course,
it's only a rough estimate.  Factors such as special effects, immunities, and
vulnerabilities are not taken into account.  You may also find out the 
alignment of the character by their reaction to you.

Depending on the reaction from the CONSIDERED target you may be able to tell of
which alignment they are.
~

#30
-1 COUNT~
COUNT

The count command displays the number of people (that you can see) logged into
the mud.  It also displays the highest number observed that day if it is higher.
~

#31
-1 DAMAGE~
In battle causing damage is key to a victory. From the lightest hit, to the most
powerful hit, damage is key.  Here is the damage you can cause ranked from 
lightest to hardest (descending in each column).

scratch		maul		LACERATE	*** OBLITERATE ***
graze		decimate	DISMEMBER	=== DISINTEGRATE ===
hit 		devastate	MASSACRE	>>> ANNIHILATE <<<
injure		maim		MANGLE		<<< ERADICATE >>>      
wound 		MUTILATE	***DEMOLISH*** 	do UNSPEAKABLE things
~

#32
-1 DEAF~
DEAF

The DEAF toggle turns off incoming tells, helpful if you are being bombarded
by messages from other players.  You can still use reply (see 'help reply')
to reply to people who were telling you before you went deaf.  
~

#33
-1 DEATH~
DEATH

DEATH

When your character dies your spirit/soul/essence is sent back at the recall
point of your hometown (see:  help hometown).  Your corpse is left behind in
the room/area where you were killed together with all of your equipment and
gold.  Corpses will decay after time and the objects inside the corpse returns
to the pit of the hometown of the dead.

Player corpses last *roughly* 30 hours of game time (15 minutes of real time).

LOOTING CORPSES

  There are following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one:

1) Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.
2) PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
3) In first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:

	- Your group mates.
	- People who are in your PK range. ("who pk").
	- Members of Thieves Guild.

If you quit (exit the game), before retrieving your corpse, the corpse will no
longer recognize you and some of the above most likely will not hold.

LIFE AFTER DEATH, TRANSMIGRATION OF THE SOUL, ESSENCE OR SPIRIT

  After the transmigration of your soul, essence or spirit, you will be an
untouchable ghost for a few minutes. AS LONG AS YOU DO NOT INITIATE COMBAT!

It is wise for you to use this time to retrieve your belongings left behind in
your corpse.  So get back to your corpse as fast as you can to retrieve your
belongings.

THE EFFECTS OF DEATH

  Although you are able to reincorperate into your body and live again after
a short time as a ghost, this reincorperation process is not perfect.  Some
of your health is lost for every five times your essence.  Your body can only
withstand so much brutalization.  You will may permanently die without a chance
of reincorperation after your condition worsens from too many deaths.  

  - Any spells that were affecting you are canceled by your death.
  - Following players and groups are not affected by your death.

THE HIGH PRICE OF DEMISE/DEATH

  You lose experience points for dying to monsters (mobs) but not to other
players.  The amount you lose is 10% of your total experience.  Death should be
avoided.  The Healer spell Resurrection has ability to negate all effects of
death including experience and condition as well as constitution loss.
~

#34
-1 DEFECATE~
DEFECATE

Syntax: defecate

An optional command, one can excrete their bodily waste once every day. This is
extremely useful when you are too full to eat more but need to pop in a pill,
etc.  Once used, you cannot defecate until a day has passed.  Keep in mind
however that it is against the law to defecate on or in most city grounds.
~

#35
-1 VOMIT~
VOMIT

Syntax: vomit

  An optional command used to empty your stomach of anything you had in there.
It has slight chance of purging one of any poisons that are affecting you at
the time even though the relative strength of the poison plays a large role.
~

#36
-1 DESCRIPTION DESC~
DESCRIPTION DESC

Syntax: description   <string>	:Set description to <string>
Syntax: description + <string>	:Add <string> as a new line.
Syntax: description -		:Remove last line
Syntax: description format	:Format the description.
Syntax: description edit	:Enter Desc. Editor.

  ** "@" <enter> on empty line of Desc. Editor to exit. **

See HELP EDITOR for info on Description Editor.

1.  `!YOUR DESCRIPTION SHOULD BE FORMATTED TO AT MOST 70 LETTERS PER LINE.``

Use word a processor to write/format/spell check your description, then paste
it into the mud's description editor. ("help editor")

2.  `&Your description should be like a picture frozen in time.``

There should be no actions being performed, only descriptions of what the
character looks like.

3.  `&You should NEVER force the observer to do, feel or think anything.``
The observer can make up their own minds about who you are and what you might
be doing.

4.  `&The description should describe you and NOT your history.``

Concentrate on describing your characters stance, face, body, and their
equipment.  Not who they are, and where they came from.

5)  `&Do NOT say how powerful, fearful, or deadly you are.``

Merely looking at a person cannot convey this information.  

6.  `&Description Approval.``

Before advancing on past level 10.  You must have an approved description
of your character.  This approval is done by the Immortals.  After all the
above is completed and once your description and it has been

        `!formatted`` and `!spell checked``

pray only ONCE per approximately 10 minutes that you are done.
~

#37
-1 DRINK EAT FILL POUR~
DRINK EAT FILL POUR

Syntax: drink <object>
Syntax: eat   <object>
Syntax: fill  <object>
Syntax: pour  <object> out
Syntax: pour  <object> <object>
Syntax: pour  <object> <character>

When you are thirsty you need to DRINK something.
When you are hungry you need to EAT something.

Example:  Drink fountain.
          Eat bread.

If you don't drink or eat when you get thirsty or hungry you will die slowly
due to thirst and hunger.  You cannot eat or drink while engaged in combat.

FILL fills a drink container with water.

Examples:  Fill skin.
           Fill bottle.
           Fill barrel.

POUR transfers a liquid to a container, or empties one.  You can also pour
from an object into something a character is holding.

Examples: Pour skin.
          Pour skin bottle.
          Pour flask barrel.         
~

#38
-1 DROP GET GIVE PUT TAKE REMOVE~
DROP GET GIVE PUT TAKE REMOVE

Syntax: drop <object>
Syntax: drop <amount> coins
Syntax: drop all
Syntax: get <object>
Syntax: get <object> <container>
Syntax: give <object> <character>
Syntax: give <amount> coins <character>
Syntax: put <object> <container>
Syntax: remove <item>

DROP drops an object, or some coins, on the ground.

DROP ALL will drop ever item in your inventory.

GET gets an object, either lying on the ground, or from a container, or even
from a corpse.  TAKE is a synonym for get.

GIVE gives an object, or some coins, to another character.

PUT puts an object into a container.

DROP, GET and PUT understand the object names 'ALL' for all objects and
'ALL.object' for all objects with the same name.  You also have the option
of choosing the #th type of a mobile or object by using #.</mobile/object>.

REMOVE will take any object from your equipment and put it back into your
inventory.

Example: get 3.sword (gets the third sword on the ground)
Example: kill 4.beast (kills the forth beast in the room)
Example: get all 3.corpse {gets the items from the third corpse in the room)
~

#39
-1 EMOTE SOCIAL~
EMOTE SOCIAL 

Syntax: emote <action>

EMOTE is used to express emotions or actions.  Besides EMOTE there are
several dozen built-in social commands such as CACKLE, HUG, and THANK.
To see a listing of the available socials type:  SOCIALS.

See also:  SMOTE PMOTE
~

#40
-1 EQUIPMENT INVENTORY~
EQUIPMENT INVENTORY

Syntax: equipment
Syntax: eq
Syntax: inventory
Syntax: inv

EQUIPMENT lists your equipment wearing or held.  INVENTORY lists your inventory.
~

#41
-1 EXITS~
EXITS

Syntax: exits

Shows you the visible exits of the room you are in.  Not all exits are visible.
You can use a 'bump' technique to find hidden exits.  
(Walking in a certain direction and see what you bump into).
~

#42
-1 EXAMINE LOOK SCAN~
EXAMINE LOOK SCAN

Syntax: look
Syntax: look sky
Syntax: look <object/character/direction/keyword>
Syntax: look in <container/corpse>
Syntax: examine <container/corpse>
Syntax: scan <direction>
Syntax: scan all

LOOK looks at something and sees what you can see.

LOOK SKY will give information on current area or weather depending on time of
day or night.

EXAMINE gives information on item. In the cases of weapons provides the class
(sword, whip, flail, two handed) of weapon.  Examine will also automatically 
perform the 'LOOK container' followed by 'LOOK IN container'.

SCAN scans in the direction that you are directing your attention for all
mobiles and players.  The range that you can scan improves as you rise up in
ranks.  Certain conditions may hinder your ability to scan.  

SCAN ALL scans in all directions and reports what you may be able to see in
directions.
~

#43
-1 EXPERIENCE LEVEL XP~
EXPERIENCE LEVEL XP

Your character may advance in power by gaining experience.  The experience
points needed to attain your next level is determined by your experience points
per level at level 1 + 20% for each level. Therefore, a human warrior, 1500
experience points per level at level 1, would need 3000 experience points
to get from level 6 to level 7.

You can gain experience by:
    Being part of a group that kills a monster.
    Improving on a skill or a spell.

You can lose experience by:
    Slaying good aligned mobiles if you are also good aligned.
    Fleeing from combat.
    Recalling out of combat.
    Being the target of certain spells.
    Dying to mobiles.

The experience you get from a kill depends on several things: 
   How many players are in your group.
   Your level versus the level of the monster.
   Your alignment versus the monster's alignment.
   How many of this monster have been killed lately.
   As well as some other random variations.

There are larger experience rewards and bonuses for groups of three and a
smaller reward or bonus for groups of two.
~

#44
-1 FLEE RESCUE~
FLEE RESCUE

Syntax: flee
Syntax: rescue   <character>

Once you start a fight you can't just walk away from it.  If the fight is not
going well you can attempt to FLEE or another character can attempt to RESCUE
you.  You may use spells such as "word of recall" or "gate" to transport you
out of battle.

If you lose your link during a fight your character will keep fighting and will
attempt to RECALL from time to time.  Your chances of making the recall are
reduced and you will lose much more experience.

Highly ranked warriors are able to sense the direction they have fled in.

See also WIMPY.
~

#45
-1 FOLLOW GROUP NOFOLLOW~
FOLLOW GROUP NOFOLLOW

Syntax: follow <character>
Syntax: group
Syntax: group <character>
Syntax: nofollow

FOLLOW <character>
This command starts you following another character.  To stop following anyone
else just FOLLOW <yourself>.

GROUP <character>
This makes someone who is following you a member of your group.  Group members
share experience points from kills and may use the GTELL and SPLIT commands.
If anyone in your group is attacked, you may automatically join the fight.

If the <character> is already a member of your group, then GROUP will kick out
the <character> from your group.  Characters can also leave your group by using
a FOLLOW command to stop following you.

GROUP with no argument shows statistics for each character in your group.

You may FOLLOW and GROUP only with characters who are within eight levels of
your own.  Groups of three and two gets extra experience bonuses.
(See "help experience".)

NOFOLLOW
This is a toggle while makes you no longer accepts followers.  It also causes
all the people following you at the time cease to follow you.  Also, you stop
following whoever you were following.

Typing NOFOLLOW again to allow others to follow you.
~

#46
-1 GAIN 'GAIN CONVERT' 'GAIN STUDY' CONVERT STUDY~
GAIN 'GAIN CONVERT' 'GAIN STUDY'

Adventurers may ask the trainers to convert ten practice sessions into one
training session.  The ability to do this is called 'gain convert'.

Trainers can also help adventurers change one training session into ten
practices.  To do this, find an appropriate trainer and type 'gain study'.
~

#47
-1 GOLD MONEY ECONOMY~
GOLD MONEY ECONOMY

The world economy is based on gold coinage.  You can use gold to purchase many
items from the shopkeepers or players scattered all about the realm.  Gold may
also be stored in the various banks in the realm.  Gold is not counted as part
of the weight you are carrying so you may carry as much gold as you please.
~

#48
-1 GTELL SAY TELL REPLY~
GTELL SAY TELL REPLY

Syntax: gtell <message>
Syntax: say   <message>
Syntax: tell  <character> <message>

These commands send messages to other players.  GTELL sends a message to all of
the characters in your group, wherever they are, even if they are sleeping or
stunned or dying.  `!;`` is a shortcut for GTELL.

SAY sends a message to all awake players in your room.  The single quote `!'``
is a shortcut for SAY.

TELL sends a message to one awake player anywhere in the world.

REPLY sends a message to the last player who sent you a TELL.  REPLY will
work even if you can't see the player, and without revealing their identity.
This is handy for talking to invisible or switched immortal players.
~

#49
-1 HEALER~
There are many retired healers and priests in the realm who have long since
abandoned their days of adventuring.  They often reside in temples and offer
their healing services to adventurers in the realm just to survive for another
day.  However they do not always look upon those who are young and less traveled
with mercy and grant free services at their own digression.

To see a full listing of the healer's services, type 'heal' at his residence.
To receive healing, bring plenty of money, and type 'heal <spell>'.
~

#50
-1 DARHELM~
DARHELM

Once Darhelm was a country of goodness and enlightenment.  For reasons that
still remain unclear, the country slowly slid into anarchy and  revolt,
resulting in evil coming to power.  Now the nation is populated by humanoids
and evil men and seeks to dominate its neighbors to the west, sending numerous
raids into the Border Marches. These have increased in recent years, culminating
in the sack of Lemminter in YK 1171.  Palinor responds in kind by sponsoring
crusades against the evil denezins of Darhelm, though its concerns in Fraisea
prevent a full response, due to the drain on its resources and worsening
diplomatic ties with its crusader ally, Restolynd.
~

#51
-1 FRESIA~
FRESIA

The Fresian Peninsula has been claimed throughout the years by Palinor and 
Restolynd as well as the halflings and gnomes that dwelled there.  After 
having won rights to the region from Palinor, Restolynd allowed it to keep 
its independent status and it became a city-state around YK 900.  Palinor, 
always seeking to control the Straights of Somerden, conquered the city in 
YK 1086.  Attempts to pacify the region have failed, resulting in numerous 
uprisings and revolts.  The most recent began in YK 1165 and continues 
through the present day in the countryside despite ever increasing brutality
amongst the Palinese.  These efforts seem certain to draw Restolynd into the
conflict.
~

#52
-1 MEGIUS ISLE ISLEOFMEGIUS~
THE ISLE OF MEGIUS

  The Isle of Megius was founded in IY 43 (YK 812) by a pilgrimage of expatriot
mages from the Eastern Empire primarily but with members from almost every other
country as well.  According to legend, the shade of Tormaq had appeared to them
on Midsummer's Eve four years earlier and bade them to establish a realm of
magic-users so that they might study in peace without forever being burdened by
their rulers into doing affairs of the state.  The band traveled the length and
breadth of Darengal for four years before Tormaq, seeing that they were worthy,
rose a portion of the sea floor in the Sea of Daegen, thus creating the Isle.

  The history of the Isle of Megius has little to do with the affairs of the
other northern states.  Following a policy of isolationism and neutrality, she
has grown incredibly wealthy, thus assuring her continued sovereignty.  Though
weak in man-power, her capital city Megius boasts some of the strongest defenses
seen anywhere in Darengal and her militia has the support of numerous magics,
both spells and items.  During the First and Second Crusades against Darhelm,
Megius was used as a staging area for incoming Palinese and Restolyndian troops.

  The last significant attack on Magius was in IY 261 when the Scarlet Horde
invaded the Border Marches.  Taking to their fleet, the Darhelmish Navy
attempted to seize Megius and thus block the Marcher Straits to enemy shipping.
The attack was two-prong, the first a naval landing in the Bay of Megius, the 
second an overland assault from the hinterlands northeast of the city.  

  The naval assault was fairly successful, landing a number of troops in the 
un-walled portion of the city.  Their success was achieved only by the skill of
their marines, who scaled the 300-foot cliffs that guard the mouth of the bay
and destroyed the watchers and defenses there before the alarm could be sounded.
The second attack was annihilated before they ever drew near the city, powerful
magics and strange and hideous creatures rending the army and sending them
scurrying back to their ships before they ever caught sight of the spires of
Megius.

  A concerted attack was mounted by the remaining force, simultaneous attacking
the Harbor Gate, Lower Wharf Gate, and the south wall west of Fire Keep.  The
main thrust was at the Harbor Gate and there the attack was most successful, the
ships ferrying troops to the piers of the Lower Wharf were sunk by spells and
missiles hurled from the battlements of Dragon Castle and three charges were
made at the south wall before the morale of the soldiers there broke and they
routed.  However, the Harbor Gate suffered badly, as did both the attackers and
defenders there, for so much energy was used in the attack the very rock caught
fire.  The remaining Darhelmish forces fled soon thereafter, leaving the
northern portion of the Foreign Quarter and the entire un-walled areas of the
city in flame.
~

#53
-1 HELP~
HELP

Syntax: help
Syntax: help <keyword>

HELP without any arguments will show a one-page command summary.

HELP <keyword> shows a page of help on that keyword.  The keywords include
all the commands, spells and skills listed in the game.
~

#54
-1 HOLD REMOVE WEAR WIELD~
HOLD REMOVE WEAR WIELD

Syntax: hold   <object>
Syntax: remove <object>
Syntax: wear   <object>
Syntax: wear   all
Syntax: wield  <object>

Three of these commands will take an object from your inventory and start using
it as equipment.  HOLD is for light sources, wands, and staves. 

WEAR is for armor. 
 
WIELD is for weapons.

WEAR ALL attempts to HOLD, WEAR or WIELD each suitable item in your inventory.

REMOVE takes any object from your equipment and put it back into your inventory.

You may not be able to HOLD, WEAR or WIELD an item if its alignment does not
match yours, if it is too heavy for you or if you are not experienced enough to
use it properly.
~

#55
-1 ASTRELAS~
ASTRELAS

  Situated between the expansive northern realms and the secretive  southern
ones, Astrelas is a by-product of both.  The lands that comprise Astrelas have
been ignored by its neighbors for centuries.  During those years the region was
populated by nomads in the southern reaches who traded gold and gems gathered
from the Silbern Hills to the northerners.  Gradually the north became populated
with trading stations that rapidly grew into cities and towns.  Numerous tiny
states emerged and rapidly devoured each other as gradually the state that would
become Astrelas coalesced.  By 2995 (SY) the nation state was recognizable as
modern day Astrelas.

  Astrelas has generally had good relations with its neighbors, despite
Restolynds claim to the Waterford Marches, which has sparked numerous small
conflicts.  The greatest danger to Astrelas comes from within, in the form of
the age-old differences between north and south.  Rebellion is an ever-present
danger and animosities are increasing as trade brings more wealth into the
north.
~

#56
-1 IGNORE QUIET~
IGNORE QUIET

syntax: ignore <keyword>
syntax: quiet

IGNORE:
This commands will allow you to control whether or not you will hear public
channels or tells from others.  Ignore is more flexible, you can choose a
keyword and anyone with their name fitting the keyword will be ignore by you.
The keyword can be anything, even if the no one matching the keyword is
currently on.  Typing ignore with the existing keyword will remove it from your
ignore list.  Typing 'ignore clear' to clear your list.  The list does not save
when you quit, so you will have to set it again if you wish to continue ignoring
someone.

QUIET:
Same as ignore except you ignore everyone.  Type quiet by itself will turn the
option on, type quiet again will turn the option off.
~

#57
-1 MULTI MULTI-CHAR MULTI-CHARRING MULTI-CHARACTER~
MULTI MULTI-CHAR MULTI-CHARRING MULTI-CHARACTER

While you are allowed create and play multiple characters, multi-charactering
is NOT allowed at the Age of Mirlan.  Multi-character is defined as any form of
sharing of Out of Character (OOC) actions between two characters.  Here are some
common examples (although multi-charactering is not limited to these) :

* Having more than one character logged on at once.
* Logging on with one character and giving equipment to another one of your
  other characters.
* Leaving equipment at a certain place for another one of your characters to
  retrieve up at a later time.
* Using leverage such as "I used to play Jim the Sage" so do me a favor.
* Logging on multiple instances of your own character at the same time to
  group or help one another in any way.
* Using one of your character to weaken a creature for another one of your
  characters to kill or manipulate.
* Using a third person to hand equipment back and forth between
  characters.  This will get all parties involved into trouble if caught.

ATTENTION: Although technically asking your friend/sibling to log on your
character and play him for you would not make you two the same people,
if the players of those characters have any relations in real life, they
may be considered as all of the same person. So, the excuse of, "But
that's my friend playing the character, not me." WILL NOT HOLD.

If you don't know what you are doing is multiing or not, you can always pray
and ask whether we allow it.  A good self-check exercise to do is to ask
yourself, "Does my character have any reason to give this piece of equipment
or grant help to this other person?"  If you cannot give a good In Character
response to that question, then you are most likely in danger of
multi-charactering.

Proxies:  If you and someone else are logged in through a proxy, then you are
not allowed to interact in any way with the other person.  You two should not
even be in the same room at any time.  If you do not obey by these conditions,
then you are considered guilty of multi'ing.
~

#58
-1 NAME~
NAME

We ask our players to have a believable fantasy name.  This name should be one
which would be given to an individual at birth.   It should not be a jumble of
letters.  There is no known tongue, no matter which race, that has their name
as just a jumble of letters in any fantasy or real life setting.

Some criteria to think about regarding names:

* Is the name found in the dictionary?
* Is the name a combination of two names/words?
* Is the name well-known name?

We encourage our players to choose a name that is not well known.  After all,
you are given the chance to create a character with his/her own life, with
his/her own story to tell.  It is a great opportunity and we encourage you
to use it to its full potential.

SEE ALSO: LASTNAME

~

#59
-1 LASTNAME~
LASTNAME

syntax: lastname <lastname> <lastname>

Example:  lastname Peterson Peterson

This is completely optional for players to choose.  To encourage and enhance
role-playing, characters can now choose a last name.  Just leave it blank if you
wish to abstain from choosing a last name.  There are no penalties for not
having a last name but having one does flesh out your character more and can be
a fantastic role-playing aid. 

SEE ALSO: NAME
~

#60
-1 'NEWBIE INFO' NEWBIE~
Welcome to Age of Mirlan.  This is a role-playing AND player-killing mud.  You
should first go through Mud School.  In there you can practice your skills and
train your stats.  Also, read the signs in Mud School.  Here are a few basic
commands that will get you started.

Just type the following commands at your prompt.

COMMANDS      PURPOSE
equipment     To see what you are wearing.
inventory     To see what you have in your inventory.
skills        To see the skills that you have.
spells        To see the spells that you have.
command       To see a list of the commands available to you. 

Help is available on all the commands and abilities.  We do recommend that you
go through the helps at a lower levels, especially if you are a first time
MUD player or not familiar with this kind of MUD or our world.

Mirlan is very dynamic.  The history, mythos and NPC's (Non-player characters)
are a very intrical part of Mirlan.  They are the aids and back drop for
characters to adventure and interact with one another.  If you have a question
about a possible command it is usually advisable and encouraged to try to do a
HELP <qestionable command>

For instance:

If you are new to the world and wanted to know more about a city, country or
even Mirlan then you could type Help Mirlan or Help Fresia or even help Bob.

While help Bob will not yeild any results, it also will not harm anything to
give it a try.

For more info, see also the helps on HELP, COMMANDS, ROLEPLAYING, NONPK and PK. 
(help <topic>).
 
For helps on combat or skill related topics see these helps: 

RELIGION       DAMAGE         EXPERIENCE     PRACTICE 
CASTING        COMMUNE        SKILLS         CONSIDER 
FLEE           WIMPY          LAG            DEATH 
PK             TRAIN          QUAFF          WHO    
WHERE          TIPS           TOUR           BUY 

For helps on communicating, see these helps: 

TELL           PRAY           QUIET          
GTELL          YELL           NOTE

Other useful commands and helps are under the HELP: 

BRIEF          PROMPT          PROMPT COLOR 

Please read HELP DESCRIPTION 

Complete a description early.  The rewards for well made description are more
useful early on in your characters life.
~

#61
-1 LAG~
Lag is a period of time delay in which commands can not or will not be executed.
Some skills and spells may lag yourself or your opponent a moment of time
depending on the spell or command.  You may still enter the commands but they
will not execute until after the lag has ended.

See also:  BASH, BODYSLAM, TRIP, GRAPPLE
~

#62
-1 NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN DIRECTIONS DIRECTION WALKING~
NORTH SOUTH EAST WEST UP DOWN

Syntax: north
Syntax: south
Syntax: east
Syntax: west
Syntax: up
Syntax: down

Use these commands to walk in a particular direction, you may also "look " in
the direction for more information. 

Example:  Look east  (Shows you what is east if you can see it)
       :  Look west  (Shows you what is west if you can see it)
       :  South      (This will move your character south)
       :  Up         (This will move your character up)

For more info see:  HELP EXITS, LOOK
~

#63
-1 NOTE NOTES CHANGES NEWS PENALTY IDEA APPLICATION UNREAD~
NOTE NOTES CHANGES NEWS PENALTY IDEA APPLICATION UNREAD

The NOTE function replaces bulletin boards and mail systems found on many other
MUDs.  The following options are usable:

reading notes/changes/news: 
(replace "note" with "change", "application", "news" etc. as needed) 

 note list <mod> : Shows all notes (unread notes are marked with an N).
 note read       : Either by number, or read next to read unread notes.
 note remove     : Removes a note that you wrote or are the target of.
 note catchup    : Marks all notes as read.
 note format     : Formats the text of the note.

where <mod> is optional and can be:

  "to"   <name> : Lists those of your notes that are to <name>.
  "from" <name> : Lists those of your notes that are from <name>.

writing new notes:

 note to         : This sets the "TO" line 
                     (player, cabal, class, race, religion, immortal or all).
 note subject    : This sets the subject for a new note.
 note +          : The adds a line to a new note (i.e. note + hi guys!).
 note -          : This will remove a line from a note in progress.
 note clear      : This will erase a note in progress.
 note show       : This shows the note you are working on.
 note post       : Finally this will post a new note. This MUST be done to post.

When you log in you will be informed if there are unread notes waiting. Typing
"note read" to scroll through them one at a time.

You may send notes to other players, immortals (all immortals), and cabals
(the specific name of the cabal is needed).  If you misspell the name of the
person or the cabal then your note will not go through and be seen by the
intended people.

EXAMPLE: "note to immortal", "note to paladin healer", "application to justice"
~

#64
-1 OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK PICK~
OPEN CLOSE LOCK UNLOCK PICK

Syntax: open   <object|direction>
Syntax: close  <object|direction>
Syntax: lock   <object|direction>
Syntax: unlock <object|direction>
Syntax: pick   <object|direction>

Exmaple:  pick chest north
       :  Open door south

OPEN and CLOSE  will open and close an object or a door.

LOCK and UNLOCK will lock and unlock a closed object or door.  You must have the
proper/correct key to LOCK or UNLOCK.

PICK can open a lock without having the key.  In order to PICK successfully you
must practice the appropriate skill.
~

#65
-1 'ORDER COMMAND'~
ORDER COMMAND

Syntax: order <character> command
Syntax: order all command

ORDER
This command orders one or all of your charmed followers (including pets) to
perform some commands.  However a charmed creature may not loot the corpses of
others, quaff potions, wear equipment or do others things regular players may.

The command may have arguments.  You are responsible for the actions of your
followers.  Others who attack your followers will incur the same penalty as if 
they attacked you directly.

Most charmed creatures lose their aggressive nature (while charmed).

If you engage in combat with your charmed creature, your ability to control the
creature will be broken.
~

#66
-1 OUTFIT~
OUTFIT

The outfit command is usable by levels 5 and below.  It will equip your
character with a new set of basic gears to start their adventures.  Only empty
equipment slots wil be filled.  
~

#67
-1 PASSWORD~
PASSWORD

Syntax: password <old-password> <new-password>

PASSWORD changes your character's password.  The first argument must be your
old password.  The second argument is your new password.

The PASSWORD command is protected against being snooped or logged.

It is recommended that you change your password from time to time to prevent
your character from being hacked into.  Also, try to choose a password that
is not easily guessed.  Effective passwords tend to contain a good mix of
both letters and numbers.  

`!We cannot get your password if you forget it.  So don't ask.  This is for YOUR
protection, not our convenience.``
~

#68
-1 DELPASSWORD DELPASS~
DELPASSWORD

Syntax: delpassword <old-password> <new-password>

DELPASSWORD changes your character's deletion password.  If set, it is required
to successfully delete your character.  The first argument must be your old
password (if any).  The second argument is your new password.

The DELPASSWORD command is protected against being snooped or logged.

It is recommended that you change your password from time to time to prevent
your character from being hacked into.  Try to choose a password that is not
easily guessed.  Effective passwords tend to contain a good mix of both
letters and numbers.

`!We cannot get your password if you forget it.  So don't ask.  This is for YOUR
protection, not our convenience.``
~

#69
-1 PET PETS~
PET PETS

You can buy pets in a pet shop.  You may own only one pet at a time.  After the
old one dies you can purchase a replacement.  There are pet stores scattered all
around the realm.  Pets that are under level 11 recall with you. Pets will
travel with you when you invoke the gate spell.

Pets are an advantage to characters that want to take on monsters or adventure
but for some reason or another cannot or choose not to group with other
characters.  A pet can add added security and success in killing monsters.

See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#70
-1 PLAYERKILLING PKING PK PLAYERKILL 'PLAYER KILLING' ~
PLAYERKILLING PKING PK PLAYERKILL 'PLAYER KILLING'

Player Killing is an aspect of roleplay.  It should be treated as such.
It has the potential to be an art form and should be treated with respect.
Violence, destruction and mayhem are a major part of daily life in Mirlan and
all that we ask is that your actions are those that would be the actions of your
character in terms of his/her role in life or profession.   Keep in mind that
your character has an alignment and ethos.  Why these can be dynamically changed
via your actions you may not want them to change for an action.

Example:
If you desire to be a GOOD paladin and go around killing good characters.  Your
alignment will change so too does your characters reputation and standing in the
eyes of your peers and other characters in the world.

You can playerkill once you have a <`1PK``> flag in front of your name. 
You will have a <`1PK``> flag in front of your name once you have gained
more than 30,000 exp points or reached level 10, whichever comes `!last``. 

See also: NPK, NONPK, CRAFT, CRAFTCLASS

LOOTING/STERALING FROM A CORPSE

These are the following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one: 

Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.

PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
In first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:
    - Your group mates
    - People who are in your PK range. ("who pk")
    - Members of a Thieves guild. 

Note that if you quit before retrieving your corpse the corpse will no longer
recognize you and some of the above may not hold.   

YOUR PK RANGE

The PK range is determined by level and exp cost.  As, your level increases,
so does your pk range.  The range is shifted up or down depending on your
characters cost compared to others.  

For example:
A human warrior with base experience cost is less likely to be in the PK of a
higher level as opposed to an elven paladin.  There is also a 8 level limit on
the range in extreme cases to prevent higher levels from unfairly slaughtering
those who happen to have characters who cost a lot of experience to level.

- Expect to get PK'ed, it happens, don't take it personally.  Just gather
yourself back up and learn from the experience. 

- Group killing is legal.  Groups of any size can attack another group. 
However this should be the exception and not the norm.    

- Do not cut link to avoid being PKed.  It is considered bad role-playing and
your character will still be vulnerable to other players if you are link dead.

MULTI-KILLING

Use your best judgment.  Sometimes enough is enough.  There is no need to kill
someone over and over again. While multikilling (multiple killings of the same
player by same attacker) are allowed at high ranks (above 40) they are 
discouraged and punished at lower ranks.
~

#71
-1 PLAYERSTEALING PSTEAL PSTEALING 'PLAYER STEALING'~
PLAYERSTEALING PSTEAL PSTEALING 'PLAYER STEALING'

Stealing from other players is allowed and encouraged here.  Someone of the
thief class has the ability to steal from mobs and players as well.  Be wary
of thieves when they are present.  Just like in real life would you trust some
stranger to your home or leave your personal valuables in easy reach & unguared
for someone to just walk away with?  Common sense usually prevails as well as a
little caution.

LOOTING CORPSES

  There are following conditions for looting corpses in order to make the
game more enjoyable for every one:

- Players cannot loot other's corpses until they have reached the rank of 10.
- PC corpses under level 15 cannot be looted at all.
- In the first 2 hours after death, your corpse can be looted only by following:
    - Your group mates.
    - People who are in your PK range. ("who pk")
    - Members of a Thieves guild.

Note that if you quit before retrieving your corpse, the corpse will no longer
recognize you and some of the above may not hold.  
~

#72
-1 PRACTICE REHEARSE~
PRACTICE

Syntax: PRACTICE
Syntax: PRACTICE <skill|spell>
Syntax: REHEARSE <song>

PRACTICE without an argument tells you your current ability level in all
the skills and spells available to you.  You can check this anywhere.

PRACTICE with an argument practice that skill or spell.  You may learn to 75%
proficiency in a skill or spell from your guild master.  You must be at a guild
master to practice.  

REHEARSE is analogous to PRACTICE but works for songs.

The higher your intelligence the more you will learn at each practice session.
The higher your wisdom, the more practice sessions you will have each time you
gain a level.  Unused sessions are saved until you do use them.

Those below level 11 can't practice higher than 80% until they rank.  No one can
use a skill/spell that is at 1% as one cannot expect to learn a skill/spell when
they have nothing as a basis.
~

#73
-1 PROMPT~
PROMPT

Syntax: prompt
Syntax: prompt all
Syntax: prompt <%*>

PROMPT with out an argument will turn your prompt on or off.

PROMPT ALL will give you the standard prompt.

PROMPT <%*> where the %* are the various variables you may set yourself.
        %a :  Display your Cabal Point total.
        %c :  Display a carriage return (useful for multi-line prompts).
        %C :  Display carriage return in combat only.
        %h :  Display your current hits.
        %H :  Display your maximum hits
	%I :  Shown mount status _M_ounted or _D_ismounted.
	%l :  Begin color sequence (HELP PROMPT COLOR).
	%L :  End color sequence (HELP PROMPT COLOR).
        %m :  Display your current mana.
        %M :  Display your maximum mana.
        %n :  Display name of current tank (combat only).
	%p :  Display health of current tank (percent).
	%P :  Display health of current tank ("health bar").
        %v :  Display your current moves.
        %V :  Display your maximum moves.
        %x :  Display your current experience.
        %X :  Display experience to level.
	%t :  Display the current hour.
        %g :  Display your gold held.
        %r :  Display the room you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY).
        %R :  Display the vnum you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY).
        %z :  Display the area name you are in (IMMORTAL ONLY).

Example:  PROMPT %n%P%C<%hhp %mm %vmv>
          Will set a standard prompt. (PROMPT ALL)

See also:  HELP PROMPT COLOR
~

#74
-1 'PROMPT COLOR'~
HELP PROMPT COLOR

syntax: %l <color>
	%L

The Age of Mirlan's prompt has limited ability to be color-customized. Using
the %l and %L codes it is possible to color various parts of the prompt.

COLOR CODES:

  In order to tell the MUD what color to insert, the "%l" has to be followed by
a single character representing a type of color.  Each of the characters has two
versions: regular (code), and bright (shift + code).  The following color codes
can be used along with their uppercase variants:

	Normal		 :	1 to 8
	Blinking	 :	q to I
	Underlined	 :	a to k
	Underlined+Blink :	z to ,

STARTING COLOR:

To start a color somewhere in the prompt, simply enter %l<code> in the spot
you wish it to start at. (<code> being one of the characters above).

ENDING COLOR:

To end a color sequence simply enter %L where you wish the color to end.  If the
MUD sets its owner color somewhere in the prompt it will override your settings.

Example: 

"prompt <%l!%h%Lhp %l6%m%Lm %l3%v%Lmv>"
  Will result in a prompt colored as follows:
            <`!1000``hp `61000``m `31000``mv>

See also: HELP PROMPT
~

#75
-1 ROLEPLAYING ROLE-PLAY ROLE-PLAYING~
ROLEPLAYING ROLE-PLAY ROLE-PLAYING

Role-playing is mandatory here.  Role-playing is the ability to interact with
others as the character that the player has created.  By choosing a role for the
character that you are playing you are given the chance to live a life that you
are not able to live in the real world.  With role-playing you are given the
chance to act, think as and to hold beliefs as the character that you have
created.  The interaction between unique fantasy roles that players create is
what makes Mirlan an interesting realm to live in.

Upon creating a character a player is given four factors that they need to
decide about their character: race, class, alignment, and ethos.  Each of these
factors can have a different effect on how the character would be played out.

In addition, many players also chooses other character traits such as an
unquenched mind that seeks to pursue knowledge, a person of sloth who is too
lazy to do anything, or a philosopher who questions every line of theology.
Those are just a few of the examples that one may choose.  Of course there are
many more that is not listed and we wish you the best of luck exploring the
possibilities.  Very little is impossible in a fantasy world.

See also 'HELP DESC'.

Do note that players MUST stay in-character (IC) as they interact with others.  
Some out-of-character (OOC) actions are punishable by the rules.

Read: HELP RULES, HELP MULTI, HELP ALIGN
~

#76
-1 QUIT SAVE~
QUIT SAVE

Syntax: quit
Syntax: save

SAVE saves your character and object.  The game saves your character every 15
minutes regardless, and is the preferred method of saving.

Some objects, such as keys, may not be saved.  Limited items will not be saved
on characters below level 15.  You may not quit for a while after fighting.

QUIT exits the game.  When you re-enter the realm you will be back in the 
same place as where you left.
~

#77
-1 REQUEST REQUESTING 'REQUEST ITEM' ~
REQUEST

Syntax: request <object> <target>

Those of good aligns may request help from other good aligned creatures.  If you
are experienced enough good aligns may grant help by offering you their gear.
Do not abuse this privilege.  One should only request those items that they will
actually use themselves.

Those who request items for others will be considered to be betraying those of
his alignment and be shunned because if they do not need the item requested then
they are weakening others of the same align and does not deserve such a
privilege any more.

Often times, a person would go into a state of meditation after requesting from
another who is good aligned.  This state of meditation may last a while, for the
requester is amazed by the goodness of this gesture from his new friend.  If
attacked you will break out of the deep prayer but in anger at your failings
the gods often destroy the itemyou strove for.
~

#78
-1 TIP TIPS~
- Type 'WHO PK' and 'WHERE PK' a lot.  'who pk' will tell you who is in your PK
  range, and 'WHERE PK' will tell you if there are players in your PK range in
  the your area you are in.

- AFTER level 10, you will not get any free recalls, so make sure you have ways
  to recall or teleport in case you run into noexit rooms or into trouble.

- Keep a good supply of food and water when you are traveling and always have a
  light source unless your race doesn't require one.

- Leveling in groups of three will give you the maximum expewrience points.

- Always consider mobiles (mobs, monsters) that you have not seen before.

- Be careful where you sleep!  Try not to sleep in crowded or obvious places.

- Find out of the way places to hide when you're being attacked by others.
  A lot of people die trying to flee back into their guilds.  Learn the layout
  of the land and areas you are in.  A helpful way to do this is with graph
  paper and note where you go.

- Always keep on moving.  If people can't catch you, they can't kill you.

- Explore as many areas as you can.

- It is a good idea to keep some of your money in a bank.

- Know the strengths and weakness of your character.  Find out the strengths
  and weakness of each class and race and see which combination are better
  than others.

- DO NOT STAY IN A FIGHT THAT YOU DIDN'T START.  PKing is about preparation.

- Refer to the helps often.

- ASK another character of the lands about things.  It is a part of the
  interaction a person would normally have.  Do not get discouraged if one or
  two will not help.  They may be involved in something that they cannot divert
  their attention from to help at the moment.

- Courtesy is the foundation of receiving help. A please, excuse me or a thank
  can go a very long way in obtaining help or information.
~

#79
-1 REST SLEEP STAND WAKE SIT~
REST SLEEP STAND WAKE

Syntax: rest	[object]
Syntax: sleep	[object]
Syntax: stand	[object]
Syntax: wake	[object]

These commands change your position.  When you REST or SLEEP, you regenerate
hit points, mana points, and movement points faster.  You are more vulnerable
to attack and if you SLEEP you won't see or hear many things happen.

Optionally you may perform these commands upon an object for roleplay or to
trigger special events.

Use STAND and/or WAKE to come back to a standing position.  You can WAKE other
sleeping characters.
~

#80
-1 SACRIFICE SACRIFICING~
SACRIFICE

Syntax: sacrifice <object>
Syntax: ca 'sacrifice' <character>

COMMAND:
SACRIFICE offers an object to the immortal that you follow, who may reward you.
The nature of the reward depends upon the type of object and the value of an
object.

SPELLS:
A healer can give up his own health to restore another's.  To commune this the
healer must be in decent health else he/she would not survive the spell.  The
communer will be drained for a while and cannot commune it again until he/she
has recovered from its affects.
~

#81
-1 SCROLL~
SCROLL

Syntax: scroll
Syntax: scroll <number>

This command changes the number of lines the mud sends you in a page'
(the default is 24 lines).  Change this to a higher number for larger screen
sizes or to 0 to disabling paging.
~

#82
-1 SKILLS SPELLS SONG SONGS SKILL~
SKILLS SPELLS SONGS

The skills, spells and songs commands are used to display your character's
list of available skills (or spells or songs, as the case maybe).  They are
listed in order of level, with mana cost (for spells and songs) or percentage
(for skills) listed where applicable. 
~

#83
-1 SPLIT~
SPLIT

Syntax: SPLIT <amount>

SPLIT will split coins between you and all the members of your group who are in
the same room as you.  It's customary to SPLIT the loot after a kill.  You may
also use AUTOSPLIT to refrain from having to split manually.
~

#84
-1 SUICIDE DELETE~
SUICIDE DELETE

The delete command will erase unwanted characters so the name will be available
for use again.  This command must be typed twice to delete a character and you
cannot be forced to delete.  Typing delete with an argument will return your
character to a 'safe' status if you change your mind after the first delete.

Once deleted that particular character is forever gone.
~

#85
-1 SUMMARY~
MOVEMENT                            GROUPING
north south east west up down       follow group gtell split
exits recall
sleep wake rest stand

OBJECTS                             INFORMATION / COMMUNICATION
get put drop give sacrifice         say help commands areas scan
wear wield hold dual remove         report score time weather where who
recite quaff zap brandish           description password worth lastname
lock unlock open close pick         bug typo  quiet ignore
inventory equipment look compare    tell yell cb at drink fill pour 
list buy sell value                 emote pmote smote newbie
                                    note idea change news unread
                                    
COMBAT                              OTHER
kill flee kick rescue disarm        ! save quit delete
backstab cast wimpy assassinate     practice train gain
throw grapple bash roar dirt

murder cleave charge circle         ORIGIN
trip poison blind                   help special 

For more help, type 'help <topic>' for any command, skill, or spell.

Also help on: 
DEATH 		EXPERIENCE 	NEWS 		STORY 		
TICK		IMMORTAL 	GROUP 		VAMPIRE 	
UNDEAD		DEMON		CABAL 		TIPS 
TOUR		NEWBIE 		RULES 		ROLEPLAYING 
PK 		PSTEAL 		LAW 		QUEST 
REBOOT 		SPECIAL		BIO	        AFFECT
~

#86
50 APPROVE REJECT~
Syntax:

approve app		: Approves the last app addressed read by you.
approve <number>	: Approves the application by number.
reject app		: Rejects the last app addressed read by you.
reject <number>		: Rejects the application by number.

In all cases a single line of text can be postfixed to the command to be sent
in the note instead of the default line.

The above automatically generate a approval/rejection note to the source of the
given application.
~

#87
-1 CABALS~
CABALS

Forthcomming

For specifics on each cabal, use "help <cabal>".

See also: HELP CABAL
~

#88
-1 QUEST~
QUEST

syntax: quest

  The Age of Mirlan offers an advanced dynamic quest system.  Quests await you
as you grow in rank of your guild and explore the land.  The particular order of
quests offered to you may change due to your class, race, align or pure chance
with the end result being an experience that is never exactly the same.

 The questor screen will summarize the quests you have been assigned as well as
the tasks you have completed.  

There are two types of basic quests:

Permanent and temporary (denoted by a <T> on "questor" screen).  While a
permanent quest stays with you for duration of the character's life, temporary
quests are short tasks often needing to be completed before you leave the lands
or before a reboot/reset of the MUD.

 Almost all the quests offer rewards.  Most often this reward is in shape of
experience and gold or items.  Many others will also grant bonus train points or
practices and other various beneficial things.

A word of caution:
While many quests are meant to be completed in groups you should NEVER give
solutions to quests to anyone.  Part of the fun and excitement is to solve the
quests and the Immortals may harshly punish anyone who defies this rule.  It is
considered cheating.

See also: RULES, WORLD SHIFT, QUIT
~

#89
-1 TICK HOUR~
TICK

Many of the game actions are based upon interval timers, including combat, most
autonomous monster actions, hp/mana/move regeneration, spell duration, weather,
and area resetting.

Of these timers, the hp/mana/move regeneration timer is popularly called the
tick.  Ticks on this MUD average 30 seconds of real time but the actual amount
can vary randomly from 25 seconds to 35 seconds.

Area resetting happens roughly every 3 minutes if no one is in the area and less
often (15 minutes) if someone is.  Also note that objects lying on the ground
will not be regenerated if anyone is in the area when it resets.
~

#90
-1 TRAIN~
TRAIN

Syntax: train <str int wis dex con hp mana>

TRAIN:
This command increases one of your attributes.  When you start the game, your
character has standard attributes based on your class and several initial
training sessions.  You can increase your attributes by using these sessions
at a trainer.

It takes one training session to improve an attribute, or to increase mana
or hp by 10.  You receive one training session every five levels.

The best attributes to train first are wsidom (WIS) and consitution (CON).
WIS gives you more practice sessions when you gain a level.  CON gives you more
hit points. In the long run, your character will be more powerful if you train
WIS and CON both to the max for your race before practicing or training
anything else.

See also: GAIN
~

#91
-1 VISIBLE~
VISIBLE

VISIBLE
This command cancels your hiding and sneaking as well as any invisibility
making you visible again.
~

#92
-1 WHERE 'WHERE PK'~
WHERE 'WHERE PK'

Syntax: where
Syntax: where <character>
Syntax: where pk

WHERE without an argument tells you the location of visible players in the same
area as you are.

WHERE with an argument tells you the location of one character with that name
within your area, including monsters.

WHERE PK tells you the location of all the visible players that are in the same
area as you are and in your PK-range.
~

#93
-1 WHO 'WHO PK' 'WHO WANTED' 'WHO NEWBIE'  WHOIS BIO INFO~
WHO 'WHO PK' 'WHO WANTED' 'WHO NEWBIE' WHOIS

Syntax: who
Syntax: who pk
Syntax: who <cabal name>
Syntax: who <race>
Syntax: who tattoo
Syntax: who religion
Syntax: who wanted
Syntax: whois <name>
Syntax: bio <name>
Syntax: who newbie
Syntax: who group
Syntax: who description (IMMORTAL ONLY)

WHO without any arguments shows all of the (visible) people currently
    playing.

With arguments, WHO can show a selected group of people.  For example:

WHO PK shows all the visible players you may kill.

WHO <CABAL NAME> shows all the visible members of a cabal (only if you are in
    that cabal).

WHO <RACE> shows all the visible players of a certain race.
WHO RELIGION shows all the visible players of your religion

WHO TATTOO shows all the visible players who bears the same tattoo as you.

WHOIS identifies any user who matches the name given. For example, 'whois a'
      shows all characters whose name begins with A.

WHO NEWBIE shows all the newbie players that are on, making it easier for
           newbies to find groups

WHO GROUP shows all the players within 9 levels of you.  Which is basically
          the people you can group with.

BIO shows personal information about a player.
~

#94
-1 WIMPY~
WIMPY

Syntax: wimpy
Syntax: wimpy <number>

WIMPY sets your wimpy value.  When your character takes damage that reduces
your hit points below your wimpy value, you will automatically attempt to
flee.  You will only flee if your character is not in a wait state -- i.e.
has not been using combat commands like cast, trip and bash, and has not been
tripped or bash by an enemy.

WIMPY with no argument sets your wimpy value to 20% of your maximum hit
points.

Some monsters are wimpy some are not.

See also: CONSIDER
~

#95
60 ADVANCE~
ADVANCE

Syntax: advance <character> <level>

ADVANCE sets a character's level to the specified value.  It is the only way
to create new immortal characters within the game.  ADVANCE may also be used
to demote characters.
~

#96
60 TRUST~
TRUST

Syntax: trust <character> <level>

TRUST sets a character's trust to the specified level.  This is similar to
advancing the character for accessing immortal commands, but has no effect on
combat strength, et cetera.  You can give more trust to mortal (or immortal)
characters to give them access to more power without messing up the character.
You can also restrict a player's trust to less than their natural level.

A trust of 0 means to use the character's natural level again.
~

#97
59 DENY~
DENY

Syntax: deny <name>

Deny locks a character out of a game permanently, rendering their character
name unusable.  It may only be removed by editing the file, for this reason
freeze is usually preferred.
~

#98
59 PROTECT~
PROTECT

Syntax: protect <character>

Protect is used to protect a character from unwanted snooping.  Removing
protected status from a character WILL be seen by that character.
~

#99
59 REBOOT SHUTDOWN 'WORLD SHIFT'~
REBOOT SHUTDOWN

Syntax: reboot <# of ticks> [count/color/purge/wipe]
        shutdown

Reboot invokes the hot reboot sequence.  It is like a regular reboot in all
aspects except that players are not disconnected from the mud.  Reboot without
an argument reboots immediately.  Reboot with a number starts the timer to
reboot in a certain amount of ticks.  Reboot -1 stops the reboot sequence.

maintenance options may be specified to be performed on reboot with following:
- count	: Counts pflies for Limited item availability.
- color	: Colors room names
- purge : Purges limited items from pflies according to amount of time played
	  previous month.
- wipe	: Wipes pfiles that have not logged in for 20 + (2 x level) days.
- helps	: Generates new set of class/skill helps files from current setup.
- stats	: Generates statistics on all races/cabal and sends to immortal
- all	: Does all of above

Multiple options maybe passed ex: "reboot 4 color wipe purge" without 
significant extra reboot time penalty.  Purge, Wipe and count pfiles
automatically.

Shutdown shuts down the server and prevents the normal 'startup' script
from restarting it.
~

#100
-1 REBOOT WORLDSHIFT 'WORLD SHIFT' WORLD SHIFT~
REBOOT

Occasionally an immortal requires that the mud be rebooted so that a change
can be put into effect.  Other times the shared strings reach the max usage,
and the mud needs to be rebooted to prevent high CPU usage.  And almost all
crashes can be detected and a reboot occurs.  All these reboots are what we
call hot reboots, in which players do not lose link, but rather, they just
experience a lag for a couple seconds while the mud reboots.

Here is a list of what is saved during reboots.
All cabal items.
All equipment in pits unless they are melt_drop.
All corpses on the ground.
All equipment on the ground unless they are melt_drop or repop in that room.
~

#101
50 PERMQUEST TEMPQUEST REMQUEST INVIQUEST~
PERMQUEST TEMPQUEST REMQUEST

Syntax: Permquest <char> <text>
	Inviquest <char> <text>
	Tempquest <char> <text>
	Remquest <char> <text/number>

These command handle the attachment and removal of the quest text in
"questor" screen.  Quests set by Tempquest will not be saved on character
and hence will be cleared on re-login. (Mostly useful in scripted quests)

Quest set by Inviquest are visible to Immortals only and do not count towards
master quest.  They are useful mostly for marking behind the scene flags
in quests.

The <text> part is exactly what is shown on the  "questor" screen.
If you use permquest or tempquest on already existing quest, its perm/temp
status will be change accordingly.

Remquest can be passed the text of the quest to remove, OR the position 
number on the list.
~

#102
58 ALLOW BAN PERMBAN~
ALLOW BAN PERMBAN

Syntax: allow   <site>
        ban     <site> <newbies|all|permit>
        ban

BAN <site> prohibits players from that site from logging in.  BAN with
no arguments lists the banned sites.  ALLOW <site> removes a site from
the ban list, if the remover is of equal or higher level than the banner.

A site may have all players, new players, or non-permitted players (set
by using "goodname") banned, by changing the argument after the site.
*s may be used to ban either by suffix (*.edu), prefix (labmac*), or
content (*andrews*), but be careful not to accidentally lock out too many
sites with a wildcard.  Bans do not save unless the permban command is used.
~

#103
55 FOR~
FOR

FOR ALL <action>
FOR MORTALS <action>
FOR GODS <action>
FOR MOBS <action>
FOR EVERYWHERE <action>

Executes action several times, either on ALL players (not including yourself),
MORTALS (including trusted characters), GODS (characters with level higher
than L_HERO), MOBS (Not recommended) or every room (not recommended either!)

If you insert a # in the action, it will be replaced by the name of the
target.

If # is a part of the action, the action will be executed for every target in
game. If there is no #, the action will be executed for every room containing
at least one target, but only once per room. # cannot be used with FOR
EVERY-WHERE. # can be anywhere in the action.

Example:

FOR ALL SMILE -> you will only smile once in a room with 2 players.
FOR ALL TWIDDLE # -> In a room with A and B, you will twiddle A then B.
Destroying the characters this command acts upon MAY cause it to fail.  Try
to avoid something like FOR MOBS PURGE.

FOR MOBS TRANS 3054 (transfer ALL the mobs a temple) does NOT Work though.
~

#104
58 SET~
SET

Syntax: set mob   <mobile> <field> <value>
        set obj   <object> <field> <value>
        set room  <number> <field> <value>
        set skill <char>   <name>  <rating>
        set skill <char>   all     <rating>

The set command is used to change the numerical values of the various data
structures. Type set <class> without an argument to see a listing of options.
Set skill all (pc's only) will set all the character's skills to the value
given.  Use string to change the strings on an object or mobile.
(see also string, stat)
~

#105
57 DISCONNECT~
DISCONNECT

Syntax: disconnect <name>

Disconnect breaks a player's link to the game, dumping them back to the Telnet
prompt.  This is a non-lethal way of getting rid of spammers and annoying
players.
~

#106
57 FREEZE~
FREEZE

Syntax: freeze <name>

FREEZE <character> is a toggle, which prevents a character from issuing any
commands at all. It can be removed from within the game, so freezing a
troublemaker is usually a better option than they deny command.
~

#107
57 SLAY~
SLAY

Syntax: slay <character>

Slay kills a character in cold blood, no saving throw.  Best not to use this
command on players if you enjoy being a god.
~

#108
56 WIZLOCK NEWLOCK~
WIZLOCK NEWLOCK

Syntax: wizlock
        newlock


Wizlock and newlock both block login attempts to ROM. Wizlock locks out all
non-gods (i.e. level less than 51), except for link-dead players who are
returning.  Newlock only locks out new character generation, typically used
for preventing a spammer from returning.  Wizlocking should be avoided, and
newlocking should be accompanied by mail or a note to the imps.

A god must be at least Supreme level to wizlock the game.
~

#109
57 PARDON~
PARDON

Syntax: pardon <character> killer
        pardon <character> thief

Pardon pardons a player for their crimes.  Don't pardon a player unless you
are sure they deserve it.
~

#110
56 LOAD BRINGON~
LOAD BRINON

Syntax: load mob <vnum>
        load obj <vnum> <level>
        bringon <char>


The load command is used to load new objects or mobiles (use clone to duplicate
strung items and mobs).  The vnums can be found with the vnum command, or by
stat'ing an existing mob or object.

Load puts objects in inventory if they can be carried, otherwise they are put
in the room.  Mobiles are always put into the same room as the god. Old format
objects must be given a level argument to determine their power, new format
objects have a preset level that cannot be changed without set. (see also
clone, vnum, stat)

Bringon will bring a character on that is not currently logged on.
~

#111
56 PURGE~
PURGE

Syntax: purge
        purge <character>

Purge is used to clean up the world.  Purge with no arguments removes all the
NPC's and objects in the current room.  Purge with an argument purges one
character from anywhere in the world.

Purge will not get rid of PC's, or objects or mobiles with a NOPURGE flag set
(i.e. the pit, the fountain, shopkeepers, Hassan).  Mobiles may be purged if
they are called directly by name.
~

#112
56 RESTORE~
RESTORE

Syntax: restore <character>
        restore room
        restore all

Restore restores full hit points, mana points, and movement points to the
target character.  It also heals poison, plague, and blindness.

Restore room (or restore with no argument) performs a restore on every player
in the room, restore all does the same for all connected players. Restore all
is only usable by creators and implementors.  Restore should be used sparingly
or not at all.
~

#113
56 SOCKETS~
SOCKETS

Syntax: sockets
        sockets <name>

SOCKETS reports all of the visible users connected to the server, including
users in the process of logging in.  The two numbers inside brackets are the
channel number and the 'connected' state.  The 'connected' states are listed
in merc.h: 0 is CON_PLAYING; non-zero values are various states of logging in.

The optional name argument shows the site of a player, or optional can be used
to identify switched gods (i.e. socket orc shows the name of anyone switched
into an orc).
~

#114
56 VNUM~
VNUM

Syntax: vnum <name>
        vnum <obj or mob> <name>
        vnum skill <name>

Vnum finds all objects and mobiles with a particular name, and prints out the
results.  Use vnum obj or vnum mob to limit the search.  This vnum is very
useful for loading. Vnum skill returns the skill number (for set) and the slot
number (for making new zones) of a skill name.  (see also load)
~

#115
55 LOG SNOOP~
LOG SNOOP

Syntax: log   <character>
        log   all
        snoop <character>

Log <character> causes all of a character's commands to be logged into
the server's log file.  Like Freeze, it is a permanent character toggle.
Logs may only be used by creators and implementors, and should be accompanied
by mail to the implementors.

Certain commands (Password) are protected against log.  Conversely, certain
commands (especially immortal commands) are always logged.

Log all logs all character commands.  It is a server-wide toggle; it does not
persist across reboots. Please do not use this unless you tell the imps.

Snoop shows you a copy of all the input and output going to a character.
The character must have an open channel.  You may snoop more than one
character at a time. Try to respect privacy.

Snoop yourself to cancel all outstanding snoops.
~

#116
55 NOCHANNEL NOEMOTE NOSHOUT NOTELL~
NOCHANNEL NOEMOTE NOSHOUT NOTELL

Syntax: nochannel <character>
        noemote   <character>
        noshout   <character>
        notell    <character>

Noemote, noshout, and notell are used to muffle other characters, by
preventing them from emoting, shouting, and telling, respectively.
Characters who are noshout'ed or no'telled will also not receive those
forms of communication.

The nochannel command is similar, but more drastic. It prevents the victim
from using any of the channels (gossip, cgossip, Q/A, music) on the game.
Nochannels usually result from swearing or spamming on public channels.
~

#117
55 PEACE~
PEACE

Syntax: peace

Peace causes all characters in a room to stop fighting. It also strips the
AGGRESSIVE bit from mobiles.
~

#118
55 STRING~
STRING

Syntax: string obj <field> <string>
        string mob <field> <string>

The string command changes the various strings associated with an object or
mobile.  A full list of fields can be viewed by typing string obj or string
mob.  Sorry, multi-line strings are not yet supported.
~

#119
55 TRANSFER TELEPORT~
TRANSFER TELEPORT

Syntax: transfer <character>
        transfer all
        transfer <character> <location>
        transfer all         <location>

Transfer transfers the target character, or ALL player characters, to your
current location (default) or to a specified location. Trans all should almost
never be used, as 100 players popping into one room can have horrible effects
on slow links. Teleport is a synonym for transfer.
~

#120
54 AT~
AT

Syntax: at <location> <command>

At executes the given command (which may have arguments) at the given
location.  The location may be specified as a vnum, as the name of a mobile,
or as the name of an object.

At works by temporarily moving you to that location, executing the command,
and then moving you back (if the command didn't change your location).
~

#121
54 ECHO GECHO PECHO~
ECHO GECHO PECHO

Syntax: echo  <message>
        gecho <message>
        pecho <character> <message>

These commands all perform similar functions.  Echo sends the message to all
characters in the same room as the user, with no indication of who sent it.
Gecho does the same for all players connected to the game, and pecho sends the
message to the player specified as the target.  Any higher-level god will see
a prompt in front of your message, informing him or her that it is an echo.
~

#122
54 SWITCH RETURN~
SWITCH RETURN

Syntax: switch <character>
        return


SWITCH switches you into the body of another character (who must not already
have a descriptor, e.g. you can't switch into a PC). You also cannot switch
into link-dead PCs.

RETURN returns you to your original body.
~

#123
53 FORCE~
FORCE

Syntax: force <character> <command>
Syntax: force all <command>

FORCE forces one character to execute a command, except of course delete.

Below level 57 (Deity) force can only be used on mobiles, and force all is
unavailable.  You also cannot 'force orc murder Hugo', for example.

FORCE 'all' forces all player characters to execute a command.  This is
typically used for 'force all save'.
~

#124
53 MWHERE~
MWHERE

Syntax: mwhere <name>

MWHERE shows you the locations of all mobiles with a particular name.
~

#125
53 STAT~
STAT

Syntax: stat <name>
        stat mob  <name>
        stat obj  <name>
        stat room <number>

The stat command gives you detailed information on an object, mobile, or room
within the game.  Without a class argument, the command will return a object
(if found), a mobile (if no object exists, but a mobile does), or a room (if
a number is given).  Stat room with no argument stats the room you are standing
in.  Stat can be used to find room vnums for goto.  (see also goto, transfer)
~

#126
52 AFK REPLAY~
AFK REPLAY

Syntax: AFK
Syntax: replay

Typing AFK puts your character in a tell-saving mode as follows: any tell to
you is stored in a special buffer, and can be seen later by typing recall.
This is useful when you need to leave the mud for 5 or 10 minutes, but don't
want to miss tells.  AFK shows up in your prompt until it is turned off.

Tells to link-dead players are stored in a similar fashion, and can also be
seen by typing replay (unless, of course, the character logs off before
reading them).
~

#127
52 CLONE~
CLONE

Syntax:

  clone obj <object>
  clone mob <mobile>
  clone <name>

The clone command duplicates an object or mobile.  The level of item or mobile
that may be cloned depends on your level.  The target object or mob must be in
the same room as you, or in your possession.  Strung and set information is
preserved by clone, as well as any spell effects and container contents or
mobile inventory, except for items, which are too high for you to clone.
Strung extended descriptions on objects are not kept, however.
~

#128
52 GOTO~
GOTO

Syntax: goto <location>

Goto takes you to a location.  The location may be specified as a vnum, as the
name of a mobile, or as the name of an object.

Some other rooms are barred to players below a certain god level.

Implementors can use the violate command to get into private rooms.
~

#129
52 HOLYLIGHT INVIS WIZINVIS~
HOLYLIGHT INVIS WIZINVIS

Syntax: holylight
        wizinvis <level>

Holylight is a toggle that allows you to see (almost) every character and
mobile in the game.  With holy light, you can see what's in the game more
easily.  Without holy light, you can see what mortal players see.

Wizinvis takes a level argument, and will make you invisible to all players of
a lower level than your invisibility level.  It defaults to the maximum (your
level) if no argument is given.  Wizi 60 characters are totally invisible.
~

#130
52 INCOGNITO~
INCOGNITO

Syntax: incognito
Syntax: incognito <level>

Toggling your incognito status will hide your presence from people outside the
room you are in, but leave you visible to those who are with you.  It takes
a level argument similar to wizinvis, people at that level or higher can see
you regardless of location.
~

#131
52 MEMORY~
MEMORY

Syntax: memory

Memory reports the size of your mud.

The 'Mobs' and 'Objs' lines report the number of types of mobiles and objects,
not the number of instances currently in the game.

The 'Strings' line shows memory used by area-file strings.  These strings have
a maximum limit, which is also shown.

The 'Perms' line shows permanently allocated memory blocks.  There is no limit
on the number and size of these blocks.
~

#132
-1 PMOTE SMOTE~
PMOTE SMOTE

Syntax: pmote <action>
Syntax: smote <action>

PMOTE is similar to emote, but will substitute you and your for a target's
name (i.e. pmote bonks James will be read as bonks you by James, and
as bonks James by everyone else).

Smote works exactly like pmote, except you must place your name somewhere in
the string, and it will show that string to everyone in the room.
~

#133
52 POOFIN POOFOUT~
POOFIN POOFOUT

Syntax: poofin  <message>
Syntax: pooffout <message>

The standard messages for goto are 'arrives in a swirling mist' and 'leaves in
a swirling mist'.  You can replace these messages with messages of your own
choosing using the poofin and poofout commands.  These messages must include
your name somewhere in the string.

Poofin and poofout only show to characters who can see you.  (see also goto)
~

#134
51 IMMTALK :~
IMMTALK :

Syntax: immtalk <message>
        immtalk

Immtalk sends a message to all immortals.  : is a synonym for immtalk.  Using
this command with no argument turns off the immortal channel (or turns it back
on).
~

#135
52 WIZNET~
WIZNET

Syntax: wiznet
        wiznet show
        wiznet status

Wiznet is sort of an immortal news service, to show important events to the
wiznetted immoral.  Wiznet by itself turns wiznet on and off, wiznet show
lists all flags that can be set (they are not detailed here), wiznet status shows
your current wiznet settings, and wiznet <field> toggles a field on and off.
The events should be self-explanatory, if they are not, fiddle with them a
while.  More events are available at higher levels.
~

#136
-1 WIZHELP WIZLIST~
WIZHELP WIZLIST

Syntax: wizhelp
        wizlist

Wizhelp provides a list of all the immortal commands.

The Age of Mirlan was created and is operated by:

[60] Crypticant - Head Coder/Owner
[60] Ihlxhul    - Room Boss
[60] Meridian   - Headmistress
[60] Zanzabar   - Head Honcho
[60] Morgorin   - Creater of the world "Mirlan"
[60] Ankharan   - Services
[59] Maelduin   - Builder/Coder
[59] Telufial   - Builder
[59] Zharth     - Builder
[59] Inanna     - Role-play Services
[53] Haevin     - Builder
~

#137
-1 COFFIN~
COFFIN

Syntax: coffin

Used by vampires during the day to hide from their enemies and to heal from the
exhaustion caused by the daylight.  A vampire can choose not to coffin during
the day, but in turn, will have serious consequence until they have sought
shelter in their coffins.
~

#138
-1 DRAIN~
DRAIN

Syntax: drain <corpse>

Seeking to quench their seemingly unsatiable hunger for blood, vampires can
drain the blood from fresh corpse, which in turn will increase the health
of the vampire, as well as temporarily suppressing their hunger.  As the
rank of the vampire rises, they will require the blood from stronger foes,
as weak enemies gradually decrease in effectiveness.
~

#139
-1 WANTED~
WANTED

 A flag given to a character who has broken the laws set in the city.  For
more information on laws, type 'HELP LAW'.  While wanted all guards will
attack you on sight and most shopkeepers will not sell you goods.  A wanted
flag may only be removed by a memeber of LAW or through serving a full sentence
in Mirlan's Jails.  

 The amount of time which you will be wanted depends on which town you are
convicted in.  What is considered an atrocity in one city may be a petty
offense in another.  The amount of time will be displayed by typing 'score'.
Keep in mind that those who repeatedly break the law will soon find themselves
outlaws.

 HELP JAIL, LAW, SURRENDER, CRIMES, OUTLAW
~

#140
-1 'OWNER ONLY' OWNER ONLY~
OWNER ONLY

Certain items in the lands, can be bound to a particular player hence becoming
flagged as "owner only".  Items so marked can only be touched or held by their
respective owner and will "zap" anyone else who tries to pick them up.  If the
owner is a "ghost" or the item lies on cabal grounds it cannot be sacrificed
or destroyed as long as the item's owner remains in the land.
~

#141
-1 RARE LIMITED UNIQUE~
RARE ITEMS

Certain items in the lands are available only in limited quantities only and
hence are called "rare", or "unique".  Such Limited items only become created
in the game if the number of existing items of that type is less then some
amount specified by  the original creator, and in case of "rare" items modified 
according to current player base size.  Often the only way to gain such Limited
items is to kill a current owner and take it them from their still warm corpse.

LIMITED ITEM RESTRICTIONS

Number of specific limitations are imposed onto Limited items:
- You cannot pick them up until your rank is of 15 or more.
- You cannot put a Limited item into most containers available.
- You cannot put a Limited item into a storage locker.
- There is a specific limit on how many Limited items you can 
  save in your inventory (More below).
- Inactive characters will have their Limited items purged.

PURGED LIMITED ITEMS

While your character can WEAR as many rare items as you wish there is a limit
on how many Limited items will be saved on your character when you quit. This
prevents hogging the precious commodity and makes the game more fair for all. 
The limit is calculated as follows:

Items in inventory saved = (Level / 10) - 1

ex: At level 15 you can safely hold: (15/10) - 1 = 0 items in inventory.
    at level 20 you can safely hold: (20/10) - 1 = 1 item in inventory.

Finally if you do not use your character enough during a period of a month
its rare items will be automatically removed and returned to circulation.
~

#142
-1 TAINTED TAINT~
TAINTED TAINT

Items touched or affected by an Immortal power in any way become <`!TAINTED``>
with their touch.  Any mortal who touches such power will in turn become so
TAINTED.  In order to avoid needless questioning and potential punishment a
mortal should report a sighting of a TAINTED item at once and never touch
the item.
~

#143
-1 OUTCAST~
OUTCAST

A flag given to a character who has turned from their path and no longer
accepted by his guild.  While outcaste you are no longer part of any
affiliation unless you're in a cabal.  Only an immortal can remove the flag.
Actions deemed unacceptable by the guild, such as attacking one's own guild
guardian, will result in the outcast flag.

The Outcast flag will cause following:
- The Guild guardian will no longer allow you into your guild.
- You will have to bribe the guild master in order to practice.
- Your deity will exact heavy toll on you for each time you recall.

As well as other minor hardships.
~

#144
-1 PROFICIENCY~
PROFICIENCY

Syntax: proficiency <target> <skill>

Used to show another or yourself how proficient you are at all certain
spell/skill.  And includes any modifiers that may affect your skill directly.
~

#145
-1 EDITOR~
DESCRIPTION EDITOR

Use the MUD's OLC editor to enter your description. 

Typing ".h" on empty line followed by <enter> will show the editors commands.  

Use ".c" <enter> to clear the desc and "@" <enter> to finish.

Here is an example of how to use the new editor.

1. "desc edit" to enter OLC editor.
2. Paste your description in from a word processor that you created it in.  Keep
   in mind the 70 characters per line or type it line by line.
3. ".s" <enter> on empty line to see what you have so far.
4. ".f" <enter> on empty line to format it. (The format will respect empty lines
    so you can generate paragraphs).
5. "@" <enter> to finish and return to normal game mode.
~

#146
-1 STATS STATISTICS STR INT WIS DEX CON LUCK LCK~
STATS

* Strength determines how much you can carry and how hard you hit and has small
  impact on resistance to afflictive magic.

* Intelligence determines how much you can learn with one practice, how quickly
   your learn skills from their use, as well as how much mana you gain per level.
   High intelligence grants bonus to resist mental spells.

* Wisdom determines how many practices you gain per level, how quickly you learn
  skills from their use, and also aids in mana gain.  It also plays a large part
  in helping you spot and defuse traps.

* Dexterity determines how well you fight and evade attacks and plays a part in 
  how well some skills work.

* Constitution determines how many hit points you gain per level and how
  healthy you are as well as aids in defense against maledictive magic.  You 
  lose a con upon every 5th death.

See also MALEDICTIVE, MENTAL, AFFLICTIVE, SCORE
~

#147
-1 QUICKSTART_CMDS QUICKSTART~
Syntax:

	help			:show this
	end			:end the quickstart process
	roll			:roll a new set of statistics
	add <stat> [amount]	:add 1 or the "amount" to given stat
	rem <stat> [amount]	:remove 1 or the "amount" from given stat

        stats are: STR, INT, WIS, DEX, CON

While in quickstart menu you will have a set amount of picks to distribute
between the various statistics of your character.  The highest amount you can
add to a statistic is predetermined and you may never decrease a stat below the
point set when you first enter quick start.  Notice that quickstart will never
allow you to create a character with a "perfect" roll that the standard roller
may.

examples:
	add str
	rem str 5

See also: HELP STATS
~

#148
-1 TATTOO TATTOOS~
TATTOO TATTOOS

~

#149
-1 IMMORTAL IMMORTALS IMM~
IMMORTAL IMMORTALS IMM 

Mirlan is overseen by a group of beings who have been elevated from the masses.

They are the creators of the world.  The creators of the new and the destructors
of the old.  They are the ones responsible for the continuity of the world in
which you adventure.  Their word is absolute.  Arguing with an Immortal will get
you generally nowhere so don't bother doing it.  This is not to say that if you
have a valid point that it will not be heard.  Just do not expect to be able
to get away with disrespecting or arguing with an Immortal.

If you feel that an Immortal is cheating or not doing their job as an Immortal
you will need to scribe a note to Ankharan, the Services Immortal.  If you abuse
this gift, Ankharan will personally end your characters adventuring career. If
you have a problem with Ankharan then you will need to scribe a note to
Crypticant.  I assure you that Crypticant will be less nice than Ankharan if you
abuse this ability.

Should you require to scribe a note to all of the Immortals in general simply
scribe a 'note to immortal' and a messenger will speed your correspondence away.

A similar warning to the misuse of 'pray' is given. 

A complete listing of the Immortals along with useful information for each can
be found at http://ageofmirlan.tamarisk.ab.ca/ or by typing in:  WIZLIST

SEE ALSO: PRAY, NOTE. WIZLIST
~

#150
-1 SOCIALS~
Socials are a way of expressing a characters emotions.  There are many socials
available for use.  type in SOCIALS or SOCIAL for a list of them.

If, you have an idea for a new social that is not represented please use the
IDEA.

HELP IDEA
~

#151
-1 raid raids raider~
RAID Syntax:    raid				: shows city numbers
		raid <city #> <raid strength>	: starts a raid

Certain cabals in the Mirlan are known to pay for and organize raiding parties
against the major cities.  When a city is raided, invaders can systematically
destroy it.  Each razed room will result in a bounty to the invading cabal and
a penalty to the owner of the city.  If the city is lawful the LAW cabal will
also incur penalties as the raiders torch the buildings one by one.  
~

#152
-1 RESTOLYND~
RESTOLYND

  The formal history of Restolynd begins with its recognition as a 
soveriegn state in YK 461.  It was in this year that a Eastern Empire 
force, while skirmishing against the plains barbarians, attempted a forced 
resupply at the hands of the Restolysh.  Thwarted, the commander turned 
his troops against them, fording the Amarill River just west of the Sunken 
Lands and instigated the Battle of the Gyreen River.  The crossing was a 
complete failure; the water was wide and mucky, and the bogged-down troops 
were easy targets for the skilled Restolysh crossbowmen.  Cavalry forded 
easier and tried to clear the missiliers but heavy cavalry intercepted and 
crushed the lighter, less armored Eastern horses.  Beaten, the commander 
returned to Brightmoor, only to suffer the wrath of the Emperor, both from 
the loss of his army and the gain of a new enemy.  Gifts and tributes were 
sent to Restolynd, along with the general's head, and an alliance was 
quickly sealed, for the Restolysh had no desire for a protracted war with 
the greater power.

  Though the route between the two nations was arduous and long, 
still Restolynd and the Eastern Empire grew closer, both through trade and 
political alliances.  When the Eastern Empire took the field against 
Palinor again in YK 548, the backbone of its cavalry was Restolysh heavy 
horse.  At the end of the hostilites, Restolynd had gained lands north of 
the Moichen Hills, wealth, and the everlasting emnity of Palinor, for the 
might of the Restolysh knights prevented a Palinese victory, as happened 
in the first war.

  Throughout the rest of the Age of Kings, Restolynd followed 
Imperial policy and foreign relations, but by the 10th century YK, she had 
begun her own path.  Trade and alliances flourished, both with the 
demi-human kingdoms in the realm as well as the newly emerging states to 
the south.  By YK 999, friendship with Palinor was sufficient to allow 
both nations to send soldiers to fight the First Crusade against Darhelm.  
Problems and old hatreds re-arose, however, leading to the ineffieciency 
and subsequent defeat of both Crusades.

  During the 900's, Restolynd followed a generous policy of aid and 
kindness to its non-human neighbors.  Thus, Fraiscea was born, the lands 
around the city given back to its former halfling tenants for use and 
maintenance of the sea-port.  Soon, even this was changed, giving Fraiscea 
city-state status in return for nearly exclusive trading and harbor rights 
for Restolynd and her allies.  This put a strain on the old port of 
prominence, Somerden.  This, coupled with the thought of a Restolysh navy 
in the Sea of Palinor and loss of commerce stemming from the growing 
Eastern Imperial trade routes to the Southern Kingdoms (which were being 
rerouted to Fraiscea), was too much.  Palinor attacked the city in YK 
1086, prompting the War of the Kings.  Even with years of civil war and 
plague, the Palinese still managed to hold Fraiscea against the Restolysh, 
though the could not penetrate far into her realm, being stopped time and 
again in the Moichen Highlands.  Restolynd, crippled by lack of ships and 
no way of entering the Sea of Palinor, could not launch a decent attack on 
the mainland, having to attack the sparsely-settled southern coast.  Open 
hostilities ended around YK 1150, though it is no secret both countries 
are simply waiting for an advantage to reassume the fighting.
~

#153
-1 MARSHALL~
MARSHALL

Syntax: cast 'marshall' 

 To motivate themselves and their troops on their tasks in the lands
members of Royalty may fashion a banner of their city.
~

#154
-1 PUNT 'PUNT EMIRATE` 'THE EMIRATE OF PUNT`~
THE EMIRATE OF PUNT

	The area along the mighty El Sehha river was first settled by 
waves of Zambuli tribesmen emigrating from the southern jungles about 2 
millennia ago.  After a period of organization and conquest, the First 
Kingdom came into being in the Southern Year 1450.  Isolationists by 
nature, the Zambulis did little to encourage trade with the neighboring 
tribesmen, the Wungari.  Instead they turned their attention to building 
great cities and monuments and many towns and shrines flourished along the 
river bank for the next 350 years.

	The first raid by the migrating Estarians was recorded in SY 1729.  
From their island bases they raided up the El Sehha year after year, 
plundering and looting the holy shrines and carrying off vast amounts of 
gold reliquary.  Despite their attempts, the Zambuli were not nearly 
skilled enough to fight the Estarians on the water.  The wars ceased after 
a while, but for nearly three hundred years, the raids continued, 
interspersed with bouts of trading and the establishment of Estarian towns 
along the Teznadi Sea.

	By 2013 SY, the Estarians were more or less a civilized nation but 
loosely organized along tribal lines.  With the lessening of their warlike 
barbarism, they lost the indelible edge which had kept the more powerful 
nation of the Zambuli at bay for over three centuries.  Their armies 
marched along the coast towards the cities of the Estarians and by 2015 
SY, they were firmly in the hands of the Zambuli.  Only the small town of 
Corsair, on the marshy islands to the north, was left unconquered, it 
being of no importance to the Zambuli.

	Having acquired an empire de facto the Zambuli set about running 
it.  Caravans soon began crossing the Great Wastes of Thule to the east, 
carrying gold and copper to their cousins in Zalango.  The native 
plainsmen the Wungari found opportunity in both guarding and raiding the 
caravans.  Slowly but inevitably, the Wungari dwelling along the western 
edge of the Wastes were absorbed into the kingdom.

	Ruling this rapidly homogenizing empire were the original leaders 
of the Great Migration, a rigid caste of pure-blooded Zambuli.  The influx 
of many gods and cultures strained the archaic ones in place in the 
kingdom for nearly a millennia.  Although many minor revolts erupted 
between the years 2359-2373 SY, it was in 2373 SY that the first 
successful uprising took place, led by the Prophet of the Sun Muaj ibn 
Saeid.  The demonic idols were toppled, the priests slaughtered in their 
temples, which were torn down around them.  Most of the pure-blooded 
Zambuli were caught and slain, only a few escaping the carnage to flee to 
Zalango and Jambool to the west.

	Thus in 2274 SY, the Emirate of Punt was formed with ibn Saeid on 
the ancient throne.  The next 50 years or so were spent consolidating and 
repairing the damage of the civil war.  Trade resumed and, despite the 
occasional raid by the Wungari, the nation flourished.  In 2879 SY, 
however, the peace was shattered when the death of the Emir left two 
candidates for the Sun Throne.  The nation was thrown into another civil 
war and, using this as an excuse, the Teznadi states rebelled as well, 
setting up their Caliphs as rulers and declaring independence from Punt.  
Simultaneously, three great raids by the Wungari devastated the southern 
reaches of the emirate, adding to the chaos.  A period of anarchy followed 
as here, too, the Age of Darkness came upon men.

	The last hundred years have been spent in isolation.  Few 
foreigners are welcome in Punt, though several nations have trading houses 
in Nabuma, Punt's only port city.  Rumors of treason and rebel are rife 
within the country and civil war looms again as Wungari and Zambuli 
fanatics both scheme for power.
~

#155
-1 RIVERS RIVER~
RIVERS RIVER

Rivers
	Blackwater River
	Blood River
	Chill River
	Dark River
	Deleraj Stream
	Ellyff River
	Greater Caerwyn River
	Gyreen River
	Lesser Caerwyn River
	Luva, River
	Najish River
	Narryl River
	Patamba River
	Saber River
	Seha River
~

#156
-1 WATER BODIES BAY OCEAN SEA~
NOTABLE BODIES OF WATER

Astrelas, Bay of:  A broad shallow bay notorious for its mist and storms.  
These are caused by warm air from the southwest winds colliding with the 
cold Viyyk current.  This bay is a favorite spot for pirates and other 
creatures that prey upon shipping.

	Bymal Lake
	Caerwyn, Lake
	Croizan Sea
	Daegen, Sea of
	Night, Lake of 
	Palinor, Sea of
	Smaraged, Lake
	Southern Sea
	Teznadi Bay
	Venpal Ocean~

#157
-1 FORESTS TIMBERLANDS~
NOTABLE TIMBERLANDS

Darkling Wood:  This pine forest, comprised mostly of black pines, sits in 
a bowl of the Lesser Raider Mountains.  A thick and dismal growth, the 
light of the sun never penetrates far into the forest, even at noon.  The 
forest is claimed by five clans of sylvan elves (the Blacktree clans) and 
death is the penalty for entering their forest unbidden.  Owing to the 
elves few numbers and the gloom of the place, it is a breeding ground for 
many fierce monsters and humanoids, most notably goblins.

	Ellyfane Forest, The
	Fenwood Forest
	Frostwood Forest
	Glaemarg Forest
	Green Hearth Forest
	Heldamar Forest
	Luvan Wood
	Navell Forest
	Rethawetar Jungle

Luvan Wood:  This expansive forest lay north of the city of Luva.  A light
wooded forest with tall pines and thick oaks.  A haven for bandits and elven
folk.  Mysterious and ancient there are elder denizens that inhabit and protect
this ancient land.

Roenawoed Forest:  This large hardwood of gums and beeches is largely 
untouched by foresters, save the indigenous barbarian men, the Woedmen.  
Bands of unorganized hobgoblins and goblins dwell within the wilder 
northern confines of the forest.

	Shadowfir Forest

Tsembe Jungle:  This small rainforest is marked in its center by a ridge 
of volcanos.  Lush and verdant, the Tsembe is home to many creatures that 
raid into the civilized lands beyond its boundaries.  Primitive natives 
descended from the ancient Tzabuli people live within the jungle and have 
proven fierce foes to anyone seeking the ruins of the cities their 
ancestors once dwelled in.


	Tzoltican Jungle
	Yarlwood Forest
~

#158
-1 WASTELANDS DESERTS~
WASTELANDS

	The Dal Teznad Desert
	The Great Wastes of Thule
	The Lost Desert
	The Plains of the Wungari
	The Scarred Lands
	The Shining Sands
~

#159
-1 EMMEREAUX~
EMMEREAUX

Emmereaux is the crown jewel of the Palinese Empire. While not 
the largest city in the western world with regard to population, 
it is certainly the most magnificent. It lies on the eastern
border of expansive Palinor, in perfect location for trade from
the Border Marches to the north, and Restolynd to the south.
It butts up against the Sea of Palinor, and has chilly to
temperate climates year round. The city tends towards cold winters 
and dry, with winds sheering off the Raider Mountains while the 
southern agriculture land tends to be wetter.  Strong cool winds 
blow from the southwest throughout most of the year due to the 
Viyyk current just off the western shore and bring much precip-
itation to the coastal plains.

Economy:

Emmereaux is the breadbasket of the northern realms, exporting much 
grain and other foodstuffs.  Timber is harvested only from the 
Yarlwood; the demi-human denezins of the other forests forbid lumber-
ing and the Darkling Wood is closed to all humans. Great amounts of 
copper are mined from the headwaters of the Blood River and the 
dwarves of the Raider Mountains engage with their neighbors in a 
brisk gold trade, which is sold to poorer areas such as Restolynd 
and Astrelas.

Government:

Emmereaux houses the palace of the King, who serves a supreme
ruler over the lands and holdings. He is served, in turn, by a
detailed network of Dukes, Barons, Earls, and Marquises. He holds
sway over the Council, consisting of most of the lesser nobles,
and Viziers of the local temples, and a single member of each of
the Knightly Orders.

Architecture:

Emmereaux consists mostly of stonewalled dwellings, and is a victim
of urban sprawl, consistently growing upward instead of outward. The
city itself is filled with towering bastions and edifices, and is
well fortified and defended by thick, stone walls, and a natural
moat, the Serpentine River. Emmereaux is in an extremely defensive,
and easily defendable geographical location.
~

#160
-1 LUVA~
LUVA

The City of Luva, aptly named for its location just on the outskirts
of the Luvan Wood, was created primarily as home for many elven and
half-elf people. Its relative proximity to the Pyall and Godswall
Mountain ranges make it a distinctly chilly environment, with four
definitive seasons, and a marked winter. Situated in the lowland
foothills, Luva is one of the furthest east settlements in the land.
It is nestled at the conjoinment of several rivers, giving it fertile
farmlands. The nearby marshes provide excellent growing conditions
for rice and tea, Luva's primary exports. While a good source of timber
is nearby in the Luvan Wood, the reigning elf monarchy in power in
Luva has long since declared the Wood to be sacred ground. Luva has
significant strategic locations as a crossroads between the kingdoms
to the north and south, and as such, many items of interesting and
often questionable background can usually be found being smuggled
through Luva.

Economy:

Luva owes much of its financial boon to land lending to the dwarves
in exchange for premium price on stone and precious metals and gems
dug from the surrounding mountains. Its wealth is considerable due
in no small part to its role as a gateway between traderoutes in
the south channeling exotic goods into Astrelas and the Eastern
Empire.

Government:

While Luva maintains its independence as a city-state, it owes much
of its land holdings to Astrelas, and often times, the reigning emperor
and empress of Luva are considered little more than puppets to the
dominance of the Astrelans. 

Architecture:

As Luva was originally crafted by elves, much of their buildings,
while typically not of great height, are ornately decorated with
carvings and inset with intriguing art pieces. Most of the commoner
housing consists of board houses with thatched rooves, as well as
numerous sod dwellings. The nobility typically tend to live within
the confines of the city.
~

#161
-1 PALINOR~
PALINOR

Capital: Emmereaux

Overview:

Palinor is divided into two distinct geographical regions.  The 
lands north of the Serpentine are hilly and wooded, poor for 
agriculture but rich in timber and animal resources.  South of 
the Serpentine, the land is flat and rich, prime for agriculture, 
and the vast majority of Palinese dwell there.  The north tends 
towards cold winters and dry, with winds sheering off the Raider 
Mountains while the south tends to be wetter.  Strong cool winds 
blow from the southwest throughout most of the year due to the 
Viyyk current just off the western shore and bring much precip-
itation to the coastal plains.

Religion:

No one deity holds more sway over any other in Palinor; all receive 
equal accord.  Although temples to the Dark Deities abound, no such 
structures are allowed with regards to demons and their ilk.  The 
Order of the Griffon and Sword keep the faith of Tiradel and while 
their numbers are few, are frequency encountered as pilgrims and 
travellers.  In the north, the Old Religion keeps many adherents.

Architecture:

The typical dwelling in the country is a house made of a wood frame, 
wattle-and-daub walls, with a thatched roof.  The floor is of hard-
packed earth and usually strewn with rushes or straw.  In the city, 
houses of are wood or rarely, stone, and of three stories in height.
Nobles are housed in castles or towers situated to defend their hold-
ings; few have unfortified dwellings.  Cities are walled and cramped, 
growing up instead of out, and crisscrossed with dirt roads that turn 
to mud in the winter rains.  Fire is a constant danger as precious 
few of the structures are of stone.

Military:

The army is formed around heavy cavalry, provided from the various 
orders of knighthood and noblemen and their retainers.  Lesser cavalry 
is of trained soldiers and mercenaries, but the heavy is reserved for 
those adhering to chivalry alone.  Supplementing this powerful force are 
footmen, mostly pole-arms and longbows.  Each knight and nobleman owes 
40 days of service to the king and this can be forcibly extended, if need 
be. Navywise, the Palinese maintain few ships and fewer mariners of skill, 
though more than any other nation bordering their waters with the obvious 
exception of the Eastern Empire.  Ships are either cog-types or warships 
of similar construction, all square-rigged and uncomfortable in the open 
sea.
~

#162
-1 'LESSER RAIDER MOUNTAINS' 'LESSER RAIDER'~
LESSER RAIDER MOUNTAINS

Part of the same chain of mountains as the Greater Raiders, these peaks are
not quite as high or daunting.  Numerous alpine lakes dot its upper valleys,
the largest being the Lake of Night As with its sister range, there are many
rich deposits of gems and gold in these mountains, making them a veritable
playground of mining activity.
~

#163
-1 GREETING~
Welcome to the Age of Mirlan...


    __    __    __               __    __    __    __   __   __        
   /\:\  /\:\  /\:\             /\:\  /\:\  /\:\  /\_\ /\:\ /\:\       
  /  \:\/  \:\/  \:\  _  _     /  |_|_\ \:\/  \:\/ /://  \:\ |:|_      
 / /\ \:\/\ \:\/\/_/ /\\/\\   /     \:\  \:\/\ |:|/:// /\ \:\|/\:\    
/  \/ /:/ _\/_/\_\  //\\\\\\ / /|_  /://\/_/\//_//_//  \/ /:/| /:/    
\/\  /:/\/\_\/\/_/  \\///\\/ \/_// /://_/ /  |:| \:\\/\  /:/  /:/    
  / /:/\  /:/\:\     \///       / /:/ \:\//| |:|\ \:\ / /:/| /:/      
  \/_/  \/_/\/_/                \/_/ \/_/  |/_/  \/_/ \/_/ \/_/``        
                                                      ____________         
       -----=======-----        ('-..________....---''  ____..._.-'''       
    Founded by Crypticant        \\'._______.._,.---'''     ,'            
  based on the world created      ; )'.      __..-''-.      /              
         by Morgorin             / /     _.-' _,.;;._ '-._,'               
       -----=======-----        / /   ,-' _.-'  //   ''--._''._           
             MMII             ,','_.-' ,-' _.- (( =-    -. '-._'-._____   
                            ,;.''__..-'   _..--.\\.--'''''--.._''-.'-._'.  
             _          |\,' .-''        '''-''---''-...__,._  ''-.'-.'-.'.
  _     _.-,'(__)\__)\-'' '     ___  .          '     \      '--._         
,',)---' /`*`)        '     '      ''-.   '     /     /     '     '-.      
\_____--.  ''  '               __..-.  \     . (   < _...-----..._   '.   
 \_,--..__. \\ .-'.\----'';'',..-.__ \  \      ,'_. '.,-''--''---'''.  )  
            '.\'.\  '_.-..' ,'   _,-..'  /..,-''(, ,' ; ( _______'___..'__  
                   ((,(,__(    ((,(,__,'  '''-- '''.(\  '.,..______   -'''
                                          --------..._''--.__       ``      
                               --------=======--------                                            
                                 The Age of Mirlan              
                               --------=======--------                                          
                  Original DikuMUD by Hans Staerfeldt, Katja Nyboe,
                  Tom Madsen, Michael Seifert, and Sebastian Hammer
                      MERC 2.1 code by Hatchet, Furey, and Kahn
             ROM Version 2.4 beta 4a copyright ) 1993-1996 Russ Taylor
             ROM OLC 1.71 by Jason Dinkel, Hans Birkeland, Ivan Toledo
~

#164
-1 MOTD~
`!   ---=== WELCOME TO THE `#AGE OF MIRLAN`! BETA TESTING! ===---``

We're glad you could make it to help us out with one of the most
important parts of the MUD...Testing!

Please keep in mind that there may possibly be glitches and bugs
in skills, spells, and areas that will need to be addressed. Please
notify us via PRAY or BUG as you come across them so we can fix them
quickly and easily. Also be aware that your player file will most
likely not be saved after we open full time.

Our goal is to open full time as soon as possible, so the more you
play and help us find any problems with all of the new classes, skills,
and spells, the quicker we can open!

Thanks again for dropping by the Age of Mirlan. We look forward to
becoming your new fantasy home!

If you have any questions or problems during the game, please feel
free to ask any of the helpful Immortals you will see.

 The Age of Mirlan was created and is operated by:

- Head Coder/Owner:  Crypticant the Overlord
- Coders:	     Maelduin
- Implementors:	     Ihlxhul, Ankharan
- Builders:	     Telufial, Haevin, Zharth
- Player Services:   Meridian, Inanna, Zanzabar    
- Special Thanks:    Morgorin, the Creater of the world "Mirlan" 
                     Thanks "Jim" for the use of your world and all your
                     hard work. Your vision of mirlan lives on.... 

Welcome to Mirlan    

`&        ---=== Press Return to Enter Mirlan ===---``

      
~

#165
51 IMOTD~
IMOTD
~

#166
-49 COMMANDMENT COMMANDMENTS 'IMMORTAL RULES' 'IMM RULES'~
.
                         *********************************
                         ** `!The Rules of Age of Mirlan``  **
                         *********************************
            `!RULES AND CONDUCT FOR ALL IMMORTALS``
1.`!RANK ALLOCATIONS``
--------------------
Ranks are achieved here by your worth to the staff. The more time you spend as a
lower level immortal, the more your value to the staff will increase. You are
given ranks ONLY by IMPLEMENTORS, namely, the Staff Administrator.  Do not ask
for advancement. It will be given to you as you EARN it or as we need it.

2. `!RESPECT``
-------------- 
As an Immortal, you are to show respect to ALL higher ranking Immortals.
Disrespect, disobedience, or harassment by any lower Immortal to a higher
ranking Immortal will be subject to immediate punishment and/or dismissal. If
you have a problem with any Immortal, please bring it to an IMPLEMENTOR's
attention namely Ankharan.  He is the head of dealing with these problems. If
your problem lay with Ankharan, bring it to Crypticant's attention or Maelduin.
All other problems with Immortals go to Ankharan.  Political wars, bickering
over stupid things will not be delt with kindly.  We expect you as Immortals to
be able to act as responsible adults.  If you cannot or will not you WILL be
terminated as an Immortal.  If the decision of the IMPLEMENTOR does not suit
you, you are free to enter 'delete' twice.

3.`!GENERAL RULES``
-----------------

There is a hierarchy here at the Age of Mirlan.  Crypticant is at the top of it.
While we are all staff members, we also follow a strict code of ranks. Immortal
ranks list from level 51 (HERO) to level 58 (SUPREME). 

Characters of rank 59 (CREATOR) and 60 (IMPLEMENTOR) are reserved for the most
senior staff members. GENERAL rules are observed by ALL Immortals of rank 51-58.
Creators and Implementors do not have to observe general rules if other
circumstances require it but they will do everything to be fair to all parties
involved but keeping the MUD's needs above personal desires.  Its that simple.

  a) An IMMORTAL is NEVER to interfere directly with a mortal. This includes
     giving equipment to mortals, aiding mortals in slaying creatures or
     characters, slaying mortals or otherwise inhibiting a mortal's game play.

  b) An IMMORTAL is authorized to enact punishment to a mortal ONLY under the
     following circumstances:

       1. Direct violation of preset rules.
       2. Direct disobedience to a staff member.

  c) Punishment MUST be preceded by two (2) verbal warnings to the mortal. If
     you decide to exact punishment, you are REQUIRED to write a 'penalty' to
     IMMORTAL, stating who was punished and for what reason.

  d) NEVER use Immortal information you have gathered to further your own
     mortal character.

  e) Immortals are ALLOWED to play mortal characters but can  NOT login with a
     mortal until 15 minutes AFTER they have logged out with their Immortal. 

  f) You are to respect and obey the commands sent down to you from the upper
     chain of command.

Failure to comply with any of these rules is grounds for immediate demotion and
or expulsion from the Immortal ranks.

4. `!ADDITIONAL RULES``
-----------------------

Several additional rules have been amended. They are listed here as follows.

  a) Immortals are not authorized to have more than one mortal character of
     Elder cabal rank.

  b) Immortals are not authorized to have mortals in opposing cabals. 

  c) Immortals are NEVER allowed to divulge information about the Age of Mirlan
     to ANY other MUD. Immortals are NOT allowed to be associated as a staff
     member on ANY other MUD.  (You are welcome to PLAY any other mud)

  d) Many of you will have been brought up from a cabal. You are welcome to keep
     your player character within that cabal, however, as an  Immortal, you will
     never be allowed to hold a position of LEADER within that cabal. It is also
     frowned upon to have a player character within the cabal that you are the
     Immortal of although it is not illegal. If you do, be sure to follow all
     rules very closely.

  e) This section is subject to further amendments without any advance notice.

Failure to comply with any of these rules is grounds for immediate demotion
and/or expulsion from the Immortal ranks.

5. `!RANK AND DUTIES``
----------------------

The following is a list of all expected duties of Immortals at their ranks.
While this list is not absolute it does cover the most basic of jobs of all
staff members.

`!Hero:``
`#Level 51:`` These are above average mortals whom have applied for the status
of Hero. ("help hero").  They cannot hold limited equipment and cannot engage in
combat with other mortals.  They can however fight and kill other Heros.

`!Solar:``
`#Level 52 - 53 :`` These Immortals are newly inducted staff members. They MAY
have been brought up to lead a cabal. They are the most junior members of the
staff, and have very few powers. They are REQUIRED to stay visible at all times.
Their primary jobs are approving descriptions, approving names, answering
questions on the newbie channel, and conduct-ing affairs in their cabal if
applicable.

`!Enforcers:``
`#Level 54 - 56 :`` Enforcer Immortals monitor the MUD using the 'socket' and 
'matchip' commands. They are required to perform the same duties as the HERO
level Immortals as well catch cheaters and multi-players. They are authorized
to be invisible from time to time to catch cheaters. Their primary jobs are
catching cheaters, answering prays, monitoring Hero level Immortals and
conducting affairs of their cabal if applicable.

`!Advanced:`` (At least one completed area is required)
`#Level 57 - 58 :`` These are senior level Immortals. Senior Immortals generally
conduct business with Creators and Implementors in the form of bug reports, typo
reports, and as well answer questions of lower level Immortals. Many Advanced
Level Immortals are assigned Hero level Immortals to indoctrinate. They are
occasionally visible to answer questions, but more often are the focus of RP
Plots, quests and rule enforcement.

`!Senior Staff:``
`#Level 59 :`` These immortals are seldom visible. They are the only liaisons
between the IMPLEMENTORS and the rest of the staff. They exist to create RP
Plots, quests, answer questions from the lower staff, or direct questions from
staff members to Implementors. Senior staff are often deities and issue tattoos.

`!Implementors:``
`#Level 60 :`` These are the administrators of the MUD. Their power is absolute.
They are harassed. They are RARELY visible as they are often coding, fixing bugs,
building, fixing typos, or otherwise working on the mechanics of the game. They
have ultimate and absolute power.  Don't bother them needlessly.

If you are caught in direct disobedience to any higher ranking staff member,
you can be demoted and/or discharged.

6. `!CONDUCT``
--------------
You are responsible for good conduct while you are here. If you are caught
cheating, you will be penalized. We have instilled a great amount of trust in 
you and if you betray that trust expect the repercussions which are usually
harsh.

Do not send useless echos or emotes to players. You are here to help game
play not impede it.

You are not to walk around with your `!ego`` on your sleeve. You are here, 
as a staff member, to do a `!professional`` job. Treat players with respect.
We are here to cater to players.  After all a mud with no players would be a 
very boring place. Treat newbies with respect, since newbies tend to be return
visitors, and will tell friends. The more experience players we get, the more
exciting we will become. Remember, once, you too were a newbie.

Any Immortal who steps out of line will be punished. Rules and guidelines have
been set. Just because you are staff here does not give you the right to insult,
mock, or disrespect players.  Treat the players with the same respect you demand
and expect to be afforded.

Certain players who spam, advertise for other muds, trash kill, or cheat are to
be dealt with firmly and harshly. Many times, they do not know they are doing
anything wrong. Please deal with them accordingly.

7. `!SUMMATION``
----------------

Please keep yourself updated and familiar with all Immortal Rules from time to
time. If you have any questions contact a liaison or an Implementor.
~

#167
-1 RULE RULES~
RULE RULES

These are the rules of the Age of Mirlan.  The are made to make your experience
here more enjoyable.  They are here to make the game more "fair" for everyone
and to keep things on a level playing field.  If you cannot follow the rules
we invite you to leave.

**  This is NOT a PG-13 MUD.  There is adult language and situations here.
WE ARE NOT YOUR CHILDS BABY SITTER Or PARENTS.

While this is not a MUD that is oriented to sexual situations it does happen
from time to time between characters.  Deal with it.  If you do not like it.
Do not involve yourself with it and avoid it.

`1SEXUAL HARRASSMENT WILL NOT, WE REPEAT, WILL NOT BE TOLERATED.``

* Player stealing and player killing is allowed here to a reasonable extent.
All kills should have a RP reason behind it.  However, do not spam prays to the
heavens about the wrong doings that lead to your death.  The immortal will only
step in when he/she decides that person has been killing excessively.

* Your presence here is a privilege not a right. Obey any orders from gods and
you will be fine.  Deletion does not require a reason, appeals are to be sent to
the implementors.

* NO multiple logins, multiple playing, or multi channeling.
(For more information, read 'help MULTI'.)  Further, if any evidence is found
implying that you and/or others are allowing your character's lives and/or
actions to be affected by anything ooc, you will be severely punished, i.e. no
forums, no chats or things like ICQ, AIM, et cetera.

OOC knowledge will always play a part, but make sure that your role is not
obviously affected.  If you are sharing a connection via a proxy server, then
you are not allowed to interact in anyway with the other person.  You two should
never be in the same room, you will be guilty of multi'ing nevertheless.

* DO NOT exploit a bug in any way, shape or form.  If you see a bug or have
knowledge of a bug, report it to the immortals.

* DO NOT SPAM.  Spamming is filling up someone's screen with things.  For
example, send a tell, do a say or emote over and over just to annoy someone.
You will be warned once and then action will be taken after that.  Another form
of spamming is typing the same command over and over again.  You can avoid that
type of spamming by typing a different command in between.

* ALL forms of sexual harassment are not allowed here.  Those who harass others
will be dealt with harshly.

* These rules are simple, and clear, if you violate them, it will be considered
cheating.  Cheating will not be tolerated.  If you are caught violating these
rules you will be punished according, depending on the situation and previous
offenses.

* Though scripting for your characters are not illegal, however leaving them on
"life-support" is.  If you leave your characters unattended these
"out of body experiences" will be dealt with accordingly.

* The Implementors made and make the rules.  They reserve the right to add or
change any or all of the rules as they see fit.  If or when they tell you not
to do something don't do it.  Likewise don't bother arguing to them about it.
~

#168
-1 DIKU~
DIKU

.                    Original game idea, concept, and design:
          Katja Nyboe               [Superwoman] (katz@freja.diku.dk)
          Tom Madsen              [Stormbringer] (noop@freja.diku.dk)
          Hans Henrik Staerfeldt           [God] (bombman@freja.diku.dk)
          Michael Seifert                 [Papi] (seifert@freja.diku.dk)
          Sebastian Hammer               [Quinn] (quinn@freja.diku.dk)

Developed at:
  DIKU -- The Department of Computer Science at the University of Copenhagen.
~

#169
-1 MAP MAPS~
MAP MAPS

Thanks to Crypticant, Morgorin and Ankharan for creating the maps of Mirlan as
you know it.
~

#170
-1 MERC~
MERC

This mud is based on Merc 2.1, created by Furey, Hatchet, and Kahn.
Merc 2.1 is available as Merc_21.tar.gz from ftp.tcp.com and

ftp.math.okstate.edu.

E-mail to 'majordomo@webnexus.com' to join the merc mailing list.

Thanks to ...
  ... Diku Mud for starting it all.
  ... The Free Software Foundation and DJ Delorie for kick-ass tools.
  ... Copper Mud and Alfa Mud for releasing their code and worlds.
  ... Aod of Generic for ... well, everything.  You're a hoopy frood, Aod.
  ... Alander for many ideas and contributions.
  ... John Brothers of Silly for permission to use Silly code and worlds.
  ... Zrin for administering the mailing list.
  ... Abaddon for proofreading our comm.c.
  ... Hind, Quin, Vic, Diavolo, Oleg, Trienne, and others for porting help.
  ... Diavolo, Grodyn, Morgenes, and others for code and bug fixes.
  ... Raff, Doctor, VampLestat, Nirrad, Tyrst, PinkF, Chris, Glop for worlds.
  ... the players and imps of Mud Dome, Final Mud, Mud Lite, Vego Mud, Rivers
      of Mud, Ruhr Mud, and Mystic Realms for bug reports, ideas, new code,
      and hours of enjoyment.

Also see "help ROM" for information about the Rivers of Mud code base.
~

#171
-1 DRUID DRUIDS~
DRUID

Druids are the purest embodiment of nature. The live to serve only nature and
the natural order.  They are some of the most ancient of sages in Mirlan. By
nature, Druids are communers, as they use the forces of the nature to cast their
own spells of protection and healing. They can be powerful healers and quite
knowing the ways of natural herbs and healing remedies.  A Druid is a very
smart companion to know, as they can provide certain types of healing even
those of the Healer profession cannot. 

Druids are the predecessors of the modern Ranger class and while they have many
of the same combat abilities, they are much more disenfranchized and clerical
than that of the Ranger. 

As a Druid's home is within the forest, while he is away from the forest, he/she
will experience yearning (HELP YEARNING) the longer he/she remains away. 

A druid will find his guild masters residing within a forest only, as druids by
nature dislike population and the crowd of a city. They are rural creatures, and
come out of the forest very seldom if ever.

If you desire to join the order of Druids, you must be of NEUTRAL align and be
either a HUMAN or LYCANTHROPE ranger of no more or less than the 30th rank.  Upon
reaching this rank, inquire at the Ranger Guild.

NOTE: YOU MAY NOT BECOME A DRUID WHILE IN A CABAL.

See also: HELP YEARNING
~

#172
-1 YEARNING~
While a druid parts from a forest, and wanders the lands, he will find that he
or she eventually becomes affected by The Yearning.  As a druid is raised and
lives off of a forest, the longer they are away from the forest, the more this
yearning will harm them.  However, once he returns to the forest, he will find
that the yearning ceases.
~

#173
-1 ROM~
ROM

ROM started in early February 1993, using Merc 1.0 code. In July of 1993, ROM II
was started, eventually replacing the original ROM.  ROM was up for a little over
a year, after which the code (version 2.3) was released, and various other ROM
muds were started, including Rivers of Mud under a new management (Zump's ROM),
at rom.org 9000.

Alander's current project is Athen, the sequel to the ROM code.  It will be
found at hypercube.org 6666, when it is opened.  The following people
contributed to the ROM flavor of the merc base code:

Socials --
    Kelsey and Liralen
New, Improved Valhalla --
    Liralen
Puff's new special proc and improved poofin/poofout code --
    Seth
Maps and map shop --
    Ezra, Regnan (Olympus)
Nirvana zone --
    Forstall (mobiles rewritten by Alander)
Mob Factory --
    Pinkfloyd (originally written for ROM, mobiles rewritten by Alander)
Geographically correct Midgaard (tm) --
    Alander
Ideas and play testing --
    Thousands of dedicated mudders around the world
Beta testing --
    Ken Blosser, Doug Araya, and Sherene Neil all helped with bug reports
    and suggestions, saving a lot of headaches

ROM 2.4 was developed during my time with Moosehead mud, and the release
shares many of the features I wrote while I was there.  Additional code
was written by Seth Scott (enchant armor, the new poofin/poofout), and many
contributions and ideas from the Merc list were used.  Portions of Rusty's
code from Moosehead also remain.

The new features of 2.4 were largely produced in bull sessions with
Gabrielle Taylor and Brian Moore, without whom this release wouldn't
have happened.  In particular, the new privacy code, furniture, and
wiznet are largely the results of Gabrielle's ideas.

Changes to the standard diku mob and object format, as well as the changes
to Merc 2.1 source code, were done by Alander over many a late night of
hair-pulling. Hope you enjoy it.

(my apologies if anyone was forgotten in this list)
~

#174
-1 LUCK~
LUCK	

Luck is exactly what it sounds like.  In cases where luck is involved, that's
where it will come in automatically.  It does not play a role in determining the
outcome in most cases.  In fact, while your luck is high, you might not be real
lucky playing wise.  There's no need to worry that your luck is low when you've
created your character, because luck fluctuates during the course of your life.
Unlike other attributes luck cannot be trained but there are certain items and
spells can enhance your luck.
~

#175
-1 COLOR~
COLOR

syntax: color <setting>

Toggles the status of various color settings.  Available settings are:

color:		Main ON/OFF switch for mud color
damage:		Color Coding of damage messages 

`1RED``		= Done to you.
`3YELLOW``	= Done by you.
`8GREY``	= Done by others.
~

#176
-1 SHED~
SHED

Syntax: SHED

Sliths skins are akin to snakes. Hence, in combat, a slith is able to 'shed' a
cast of skin to help aid him in combat. This cast of skin is a near transparent
replica of the original slith and has been known to instill fear into a foe
while fighting. Generally the shod skin cannot withstand the rigors of battle
and soon crumbles into dust.
~

#177
-1 SWALLOW~
SWALLOW

Syntax: SWALLOW <corpse>

Much like their reptilian cousins, sliths have hinged jaws. They are known to
feed on corpses by merely swallowing them whole. This can provide sustenance
for a hungry slith.
~

#178
-1 OUTLAW~
OUTLAWS

Outlaws have been forsaken by the laws of the land. They are criminals who have
been deemed by justice to be irreparable, and who are now not protected by the
laws of cities. Outlaws may be attacked by anyone, anywhere, without chance for
repercussion by the LAW Cabal.  They are the worst criminals and as thus they
are killed on a spot when apprehended and never lose their WANTED flags.

See also: HELP LAW, CRIMES
~

#179
-1 'RACE HELP' 'RACE' 'RACES'~
RACE RACES

The following races are available to player characters: 

 Human        0 extra   The standard race, average attributes.
 Feral      100 extra   Humanoid beasts, fast and ferocious.
 Cloud      150 extra   Most intelligent of giants, always good.
 Stone      175 extra   Neutral giants, strong and healthy, but very dim.
 Fire       200 extra   Unbelievably strong, healthy giants, always evil.
 Gnome      150 extra   Fragile but very intelligent and incredibly wise.
 Half-Elf   250 extra   Mix breed of humans and elves.  Mixed attributes.
 Ogre       250 extra   Very strong and healthy, huge regenerative powers. 
 Lycan      300 extra   Protectors of Geamina, half-human half-beast.
 Dwarf      325 extra   Stocky demi-humans that are amazingly hardy.
 Duergar    325 extra   Evil dwarves, not as healthy, but more dexterous.
 Halfling   350 extra   Very small, wise and incredibly agile.
 Slith      500 extra   Sentient reptilians, quick and agile.
 Minotaur   500 extra   Foul tempered man-like creatures with bull head.
 Illithid   500 extra   Powerful psi subterranean creatures, always evil.
 Elf        500 extra   Fair, amazingly smart and dexterous, always good.
 Drow       500 extra   Like their elven cousins, except sinisterly evil.
 Faerie     500 extra   Small and fast, very intelligent.

           Different races have different starting statistics.
 
In addition to the above listed races, The Age of Mirlan also gives you
the opportunity to apply to have a custom race, as determined by the limit
of your own imagination.             

With our dynamic alignment it is possible to start out as an lawful evil drow
through their actions they can become a lawful good drow.

See Also:  QRACE, REINCARNATION, CONVERT
~

#180
-1 VENPAL PENAL COLONY~
VENPAL PENAL COLONY
    
    The Venpal Penal colony is where the large majority of outlaws get sent to
by the law for breaking the laws of Mirlan.  Sentencing, Executions and Serving
Time are all carried out here in this maximum security prison.  If you wind up
here there is a good chance you will not get out.... Alive.... 

See also JAIL
~

#181
-1 GIANT GIANTS~
Giants (not to be confused with Ogres) are the largest of the races, ranging
from 9-12 feet in height.  They are stronger than any other race, and almost as
durable as the dwarves.  They aren't too bright, however, and their huge size
makes them more clumsy than the other races.  There are three different types
of giants in Mirlan.

See: CLOUD, STONE, FIRE
~

#182
-1 CLOUD~
CLOUD GIANT

Cloud giants are the most intelligent of giants.  They live in cities built in
the highest of mountains.  Despite being civilized, however, they are still
rough and quick to anger.

Like all giants, cloud giants have a size advantage over most adventurers and
are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants an innate
mastery in bash, body slam and enhanced damage, although their slow minds make
them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells.  Cloud giants are uniquely
resistant to lightning, and can travel above and below water without the aid of
a boat.  Their natural affinity for watery grounds grants them large skill bonus
when on water.

Cloud giants cannot use wooden equipment in their adventures, much as elves shun
the touch of iron.  Despite their unpredictability, they are followers Goodness.

Cloud giants can be the following classes:

Warrior, Berserker, Cleric.
~

#183
-1 STONE~
STONE

 Stone giants inhabit the wilderness of Mirlan, and live by using their brute
strength to crush their prey when they hunt.  However, much as other giants,
their raw strength makes them very clumsy when it comes to avoiding attacks.
Stone giants are natural wanderers, and are often found alone in places away
from crowds.  They are largely ignorant of cities and laws. 

Like all giants, stone giants have a size advantage over most adventurers, and
are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants an innate
mastery in bash, body slam, and enhanced damage, although their slow minds make
them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells. Having no additional resistance
they also lack any true weaknesses. They are neutral in alignment.

 Stone Giants, unlike the others possess the ability to use boulders as thrown
weapons in certain types of terrain.

 Stone giants can be the following classes:

Warrior, Ranger, and Berserker.
~

#184
-1 FIRE~
FIRE

Fire giants are found in the mountainsides, especially in volcanic wastes.
Typically living in small villages, they often fight among themselves to
establish power and ranking within their crude communities.  Fire giants
are also known to quarrel with goblins and orcs over living space and hunting
grounds, although they are not smart enough to organize themselves to fight
full-scale wars.

Like all giants, fire giants have a size advantage over most adventurers, and
are resistant to physical attacks.  They also share with other giants an innate
mastery in bash, body slam, and enhanced damage, although their slow minds make
them vulnerable to mental attacks and spells.  Like their name implies, fire
giants have adapted themselves to their hot surrounds, and are thus resistant to
fire, and extremely adept with any weapons made of fire, or causing fiery damage.
However, ice attacks are foreign to them, and they are vulnerable to such
attacks.  They are naturally evil.

Fire giants can be the following classes:

Warrior, Cleric, and Berserker.
~

#185
-1 DROW LUTHARNI~
DROW  LUTHARNI

Drow are the dark skinned cousins of elves.  Driven centuries ago below the
lands into caverns and what some call "the underdark" by an eons long war with
the elven people they grew to hate.  Their hate twisted into an evil born of
ultimate revenge and associations with the creatures that inhabit the underworld
of Mirlan.  Long have they plotted and planned revenge upon the elven nations
and all those races that helped them.  Originally they were not evil, but over
the eons of time they transformed into twisted visages of the elf.  Their
natural magical entities adapted to the dark.  Their infravision and other
senses grew in power while some of the other natural abilities subsided and
faded.  They gained immunities to certain things and vulnerabilities to others.
The one thing that remained constant with them and their elf-brethren is their
quickness and ability to use magic.

The drow race in general are usually always evil.  The centuries of removal from
the upper realms of Mirlan have twisted their thinking and jaded their outlook
to all but their own kind.  While they will cooperate with many races, to see
a drow and an elf in the same company is a rare thing indeed and usually some
deceit or trickery is at hand.

The drow stock tend to be slightly thinner than their elf cousins.  Usually,
platinum or pure snow white hair with sharp drawn eyes with high arched brows.
A tell tale signature physical appearance is their thin wispy lips that are as
ebony as their skin.

Any drow that is found above ground is usually an outcast drow of the deeply
hidden society.  Much of the racial abilities of a drow are lost when they
venture too long from their homeland, never to regain them.  Many times this
drives the drow insane and to become even more vile and twisted in their evil.
Taking out on others their pain and loss.  Outcasts of the drow society are
usually the adventuring type.  

They tend to stay away from silver and mithril items and are not as susceptible
to being charmed and very hard to detect coming up behind you, making these
creatures very good thieves and practitioners of the darker arts and
professions.

DROW CAN BE:  
WARRIOR  DARK-KNIGHT  THIEF THAUMATURGIST ILLUSIONIST
SHAMAN  NECROMANCER
~

#186
-1 DWARF DWARVES DWARVEN MUZ~
DWARF DWARVES DWARVEN MUZ

Dwarves resemble short, broad-shouldered, stocky humans.  They are extremely
hardy and resist many things that would kill a human because of their
constitutions.  As a race they are extremely hard working and stout with a
generality of ale lovers.  They usually appear to other races as greedy, dour
and taciturn but this is a misplaced observation of those who do not understand
dwarven society.  They are very social with their own kind and can tell and take
a joke with the best of them so long.... as it comes from another dwarf.  They
frown up other races most times because of their usual serious nature towards
work and work ethics.

Usually once a dwarf has been made a friend they are a friend for life.  These
long bearded and stout people lean towards lawfulness and goodness while not
being restricted to these ideals and moralities.  Generally, when found out in
the Mirlan adventuring they do not stick to patterns of normality.  While, they
do tend to stay from the evil alignments, this does not preclude them from them
either.  They can be just as evil and cunning as the most vile drow.  While
hardy and able to see in the dark due to their stocky thick core they do not
deal well with water and no dwarf has been known to be able to tread water for
very long.  Muscle does not float as well as fat.  A fact most dwarves are
acutely aware of.  

DWARVES CAN BE:
WARRIOR BERSERKER HEALER
~

#187
-1 DUERGAR 'DARK DWARF' MURZA~
DUERGAR  DARK DWARF MURZA

Many centuries ago, some dwarves sided with what are now known as the drow
people in an epic battle between the races.  The reasons for the war long lost
to antiquity and forgotten.  All that remains of this terrible war are the races
that came of that war.  Driven deep into mountain caverns.  The duergar were
continually pursued in the genocide mentality of the factions that fought them.
They used their natural abilities of mining and tunnel digging to burrow deep
into the world.  Eventually finding a whole other world beneath the surface
that had been carved out of millions of years of underground rivers and
fantastic creatures that call the depths of Mirlan's soil home.  They found
themselves once again allied with their former comrades in arms in the drow.

The duergar much like the drow sought revenge and to this end found the drow
useful allies.

Long years of cultural changes and the effects of losing to their above surface
enemies tainted these once benign people into a reverse image of there dwarf
brothers and sisters.  Their skin became an ashy-white for the most part and
their eyes tended to grow even more acutely aware of their dark surroundings
giving them extremely good vision in the deep dark of the underworld.  Their
eyes transformed into pupiless orbs of milky white giving them spooky blank
expression when gazed upon.  

Something happened as history tells it, between the duergar and the drow and it
is widely believed that evil turns upon evil which gave way to the discord
between the two races.  While they still cooperate with each other is it out of
need and not out of a desire to socialize with each other.  Widely known that
the other creatures and races of the underworld can be dangerous to encounter
the more intelligent races such as the duergar put old scars behind them in
favor of survival when clans such as the Illithid rise in power below.  

The duergar adventuring race are mostly males.  While there are a few female
duergar adventurers they are few and far between.  Duergar that leave their
ancestral homes lose many of their innate abilities but they do retain a few.
Wildly believe to be fierce fighters they have been called berserking fiends of
the underworld.  They make excellent warriors and thieves as well as berserkers.
Occasionally a powerful duergar will become a dreaded shaman.  Lo to those that
cross such a person.  The outcast duergar are generally always evil and very
maliciously conniving.  

Duergar do not handle magic well and tend to shun such arts and professions
however, due to their high constitutions they are resilient to it as well as
natural poisons.  As dwarves are prone to avoid water so too are the duergar
as they are shaped much like their dwarf brothers and tend to sink quickly once
immersed in water.

DUERGAR CAN BE:
WARRIOR BERSERKER SHAMAN THIEF
~

#188
-1 ELF ELVEN ELVES LUVANI~
ELF ELVEN ELVES LUVANI

Elves are a magical race which look like thin wiry but extremely beautiful
humanoids.  There are so many different kinds of sub-races of elf such as the
valley elf, sylvan elf, wild elf, high elf, gray elf et cetera.

Most not of the elven race cannot tell the subtle differences between the
various kinds that what is know about them is general information that tends to
be lumped together as a "common knowledge" of the elven race.  Which, elves
being aloof and not all that interested in pointing out the difference to
others as they know who is who and that is all that matters.  

Elves are decedents of the Fae-Elves of Mirlan.  One of the oldest races in
Mirlan they tend to be a bit disconnected from the affairs of men as they have
seen mankinds cultures come and go over the untold millennia that have passed
before.

Elves tend to be extremely quick and agile.  This makes them suitable for many
professions.  Some of the best thieves and rangers are of the elven race.
Elves, while appearing to be disconnected this is an illusion to most as they
are very in tune with the natural order of things and Gaemina's will.  Most of
what is known about the elven culture comes directly from elves themselves.
There are so many more mysteries that they keep hidden and secret, only
releasing information in general ways.  Curiously, elves do not have souls.
They are spirits contained in material forms.  Thusly, elves are believed to
re-incarnate upon their final injuries into other beings, transforming their
energies into something of the natural world.  Elves have extremely good night
vision and most times while in the homes of the forest elves cannot be tracked
or heard except by the best of the best trackers and hunters.  Due to the
common social life-styles of elves they tend to lean towards the finer artistic
aspects of life such as art, poetry, magic and musical endeavors.  This does not
limit them but over the many long ages they have adapted to this life-style and
they tend to be slightly more frail than humans.  

Most adventuring elves come in many different colors and sizes not normally seen
in the clans of elven cultures that keep to themselves but there are many
generalities that do remain a constant to their fine race.  Usually they have
almond shaped and high brow eyes.  Their hair, while thick, is fine as silk with
a unusually high sheen to it that gives it a more pronounced vibrance to it.
They tend to be lean and slender with fingers that look more apt to play an
instrument than use in battle.  Make no mistake though, elves can be
accomplished warriors that can fight with the best of the most hardy ogres if
they are smart.

Elves due to their nature are difficult to charm and like wise because of
their culture they tend to stay away from the cruder things like iron.  

ELVES CAN BE:
WARRIOR RANGER PALADIN THIEF THAUMATURGIST HEALER 
~

#189
-1 FAIRY FAIRIES 'FAE-FOLK' 'FAE'~
FAIRY FAIRIES FAE-FOLK FAE

Fairies tend towards neutrality either good or evil.  Fairies are very small
humanoids that resemble miniature elves. They have four wings that are very
much like a dragonflies in appearance and functionality.  This allows these
fine folk to stay aloft and they do so without usually ever walking.  Due to
the Xenophobia of these fine folk and their magical nature they tend to keep
pretty much to themselves in their native home but there are the adventuring
exceptions.  The fae-folk are naturally intelligent.  They tend to do very well
in many professions that require the intelligence to be superior to those
around them.  They are tricksters, usually not to the point of serious harm
they do get a kick out of practical jokes and using their innate abilities to
humor themselves.  

While they are extremely bright they are not very wise.  This has kept the
powerful race from taking over Mirlan.  Adept at magic and magic using classes
they tend to veer from the clerical fields as they inherently are not very wise
creatures.  Fairies can be male or female but most seen in the world are female.

The females of this race tend to be more adventurous and due to their limited
ability to procreate, nature has formed them to seek out their mates from other
colonies of fae-folk from other glens.  The males racially tend to stay near
their homeland glens in hopes that adventuring females will come to them and
procreate.  This and the fact that their reproductive habits are much like a
birds in the sense that they lay eggs as opposed to live birth.  The males are
very protective of their offspring and this too tends to keep the racially
stronger of the genders home, fending for the young.  Fairies in their
lifetimes usually mate for life, while not the absolute, this also lends to
their lower populations as a mated pair will usually only produce one and
rarely two children. No reported cases of fae-folk of having three children per
mated pair while there are instances of a parent producing a third and fourth
child out of mated pair with another of their kind.

The fae-folk keep their glens and homelands extremely secret.  Rumors have them
in many places near large oak groves and ancient trees.  

Many of the other races tend to look at the fairy as aloof to mundane matters
but very arrogant in the forms of racial superiority.  They can after all, fly.
Fairies tend to get and pass on diseases very easily. Yet another reason they
try and keep their tribes far from the other unclean races of Mirlan.

They have a natural enemy in lizardmen.  Usually, this will provoke a fight to
the death upon meeting.  This is a racial generality and it has been recorded
where an exception to the rule has taken place.

FAIRIES CAN BE:
WARRIOR  DARK-KNIGHT SORCERER THAUMATURGIST THIEF 
HEALER NECROMANCER SORCERER
~

#190
-1 GOBLIN GOBLINS~
GOBLIN GOBLINS

Goblins are the scavengers of Mirlan.  Extremely adapt at the pleasures of
looting and pillaging.  Generally they tend to stick to a tribal type society.
Goblins love to scurry around in the dead of night.  They have a keen sense of
night vision.  Goblins are one of the few evil races that do not have an
aversion to work.  Thusly, they are pretty fair miners themselves.  Most goblins
are short in stature, ranging from three to four feet tall.

Their hides are generally a yellowish to a dull orange hue.  Normally, goblins
have reddish eyes to a very bright yellow.  There is something about their
vision that leads most goblins to prefer what humans call some pretty awful
color schemes.  Choosing drab grays, greens and stained maroons.  The theory
from some of the wiser sages of Mirlan is that their eyes are like a bees eyes.
That they see colors that are dull and muddled as bright and vibrant.  This has
also lent to the theory that because they see things in this fashion, it drives
them insane shortly after birth.  There have been instances where a goblin has
been born blind that did not find themselves consumed with hatred and evilness
which leads the scholars to believe that goblins are not evil due to their
nature but are driven insane and evil due to their genetic makeup.

Goblins tend to dislike and hate most gnomes and dwarves.  So much so that they
will generally attack them on sight.

Conversely, goblins are slave traders.  They find great glee in enslaving
others.  The true strength of the goblin society is their vast numbers.  This
has kept them strong as a race and while not as strong as the human populations
very close to it.

Goblins have a very fast metabolism.  They tend to heal faster than most other
races.  Though, not quite as fast as a troll per say but indeed many a person
hath though a Goblin laid to rest and have them stand up a moment later and
catch their opponents off guard.

Adventuring goblins are generally not afflicted with the insanity of the
visions.  Something has happened where they escaped the traditional trait of
not being able to live with the brightness of the world around them and thusly
are not usually afflicted with the insanity of goblin society.  Goblins tend
to be neutral in their respect to ethos and but morally they swing both ways.

GOBLINS CAN BE:
WARRIORS THIEVES HEALERS
~

#191
-1 DEMON DEMONS~
DEMON DEMONS

The demon Crypticant sent forth from the Chaos Rift, home of Krasq,
to tear Mirlan and its populace asunder with the screams and torments of
the Chaos Demons. These vile creatures were unlike any Mirlan had ever seen.
They did not speak a language any knew, and their names were so vile and
repulsive to speak that they were connoted nicknames to describe their
pleasures. Malice, Agony, Lightbane...  Many names used by mortals to 
describe the pure evil that had been borne into the lands.

Demons are not living beings, but nor are they dead or undead. They are
the result of a thousand damned souls intertwined into a single mind.
Since they are already doomed by the gods they are immune to the curses
you may attempt to bind them with.  Their horribly disfigured bodies are
often covered in thick cloths, and they avoid daylight and gatherings,
often preferring to work underground in the darkness. Having no normal
spoken dialect, they speak only telepathically augmenting their power
with magic in order to be heard by others.

Demons are not born into these realms.  Rather a willing mortal submits
his or her body to Crypticant and if found worthy they are transformed into a
Demon thus becoming one of the unholy race. A tortured mind is often the exact
catalyst he needs to forge a Demon. If, for some reason, you feel you have
earned a fate worse that death and wish to serve as one of these Dark
Lords, send an application to Immortal with your inquiry. Be warned, however...
They do not tolerate foolishness. Only the truly blackest of hearts will enter
into the Demonic Kin.

See also: HELP DEMON REQUIREMENTS
~

#192
-1 OGRE OGRES~
OGRE OGRES

Ogres are distant relatives of giants.  This is a very apparent physical
feature when you see their large size, powerful hands and physical attributes.
One of the ogres greatest strengths is the fact that they socially have no
problems with many of the other races and are more than willing to mingle with
them to further their aims, goals and objectives.  Ogre skins, if you can call
them that, generally range from a soot black to dull yellow.  The blacker the
more rare however.  Most look like they have a jaundice type sickness color to
their skins.  Some are even a sickly violet color, these are the most rare of
the race though and usually are killed at birth due to the association with
magic.  Ogres detest magic.  Even their tribal healers are under suspicion and
failure to heal a warrior usually means instant death for a tribal healer.  The
eyes of an ogre are a bit strange to most humans.  They have purplish eyes with
white pupils.  This gives them a disheartening look when they get angry.  Their
teeth are either black from the decay or when clean, which is almost never,
orange.  Their fingers and toes are shaped more like talons than the former.

Ogres tend to lean towards the fur/hide forms of armor but again as with other
cultural norms this does not mean they cannot wear it.  It is a general racial
preference. 

Ogres understand battle.  They are very powerful warriors and train long and
hard to be the best at fighting and melee skills.  Due to their physical
strength and high constitutions they heal a little faster from wounds sustained
in battle.  They are good at pounding opponents and if they get you off of the
ground, you may be pounded into it as they slam you down.  

OGRES CAN BE:
WARRIORS BERSERKERS HEALERS
~

#193
-1 GNOME GNOMES LAMMEN~
GNOME GNOMES LAMMEN

Gnomes are an interesting race.  They are short like a dwarf but not as thick
or broad shouldered.  They tend to be able to dabble in the magical arts much
more aptly than dwarves.  Sahaeyeh and Madshem begot the Fey-Gnomes and in time
became gnomes.  While looking similar the dwarves and the gnomes are not related
racially.  

Gnomes prefer hilly regions and burrows.  Highly capable and much sought after
are gnomish inventions and skills in gemsmithing.  They are masters in general
of this particular trade and when a gnome takes it up as a profession there are
very few indeed who can match their skills.  Shifty and cunning, nimble and
quick of feet gnomes gain respect with their inborn abilities as rangers of
excellence and many a person has lost their person to the deft hands of a
gnomish thief.  

Gnomes tend to be jovial and serious at the same time.  Some feel that they are
rather greedy when it comes to material possessions as a rule of thumb but this
is largely a misinterpretation of their normal desire to acquire wealth for the
later retirement years, hopefully according to one wise gnomish sage, at a young
enough age to be able to rather enjoy the quiet and peace to tinker with their
inventions.

Gnomes are also some of the wisest creatures in Mirlan.  They are said to be the
very best sages and wisemen. Combined with their high intelligence, gnomes make
formidable foes when hard pressed into battle.  Mostly they are a peace loving
and unconcerned in the affairs of others.  They tend to stay out of the whole
idealistic struggle between chaos and order, preferring instead to remain
neutral as they see it to be the best advantage to be able to bargain and work
with all Choosing of course whom they will based on their needs at the time
without having to follow the dictates of petty ethos of chaotic or lawfulness.

Gnomes tend to have rather pronounced noses.  Near comical. With a usually
darker tanned skin which is natural, not sun caused, and coarse hair which
they tend to braid like the dwarven people.  Their skin is not as tough as
most races, this makes their kind try and avoid being bashed around a lot.  One
of the reasons note too many gnomish warriors exist although, there are a few.
Most gnomes prefer finesse and skill opposed to brute force.  Gnomes over time
developed the ability to see in the dark from generations of gnome clans
digging in the mines for precious stones and the creation of fine jewelry.  

GNOMES CAN BE:
WARRIOR RANGER THIEF THAUMATURGIST SORCERERS
~

#194
-1 HALFELF HALF-ELF 'HALF ELF' HALUVANI~
HALFELF HALF-ELF 'HALF ELF' HALUVANI

In most ways, half elves emulate their elven parents.  Half elves find
themselves often times a people apart, suffering mistrust from both races
although they can themselves find comfort in either company.  Half elves
tend to find themselves making homes in either elven lands or human lands and
exist usually without incident.

Half elves are a little bigger than their elven bloodline.  Usually conforming
to the human side in physical height.  They tend to be a little thinner and
lighter than their human parents.  

Half elves generally have the best of both heritages.  They see very well in the
dark and their minds are like steel traps making them difficult to scan mentally.
Fleet of foot and experienced at hiding from small minded purist of the elven
and human races half elves have adapted nicely in Mirlan.

Half elves are more prolific than their elven lines but not as much as the human
side.  A half elf may have on average one to three children each per lifetime
with little variation or exception.

HALF-ELVES CAN BE:
WARRIOR BERSERKER HEALER
~

#195
-1 'CLASS HELP' 'CLASS' 'CLASSES'~
The Age of Mirlan has the following classes for player characters:

  Warrior               0 exp extra       Masters of armed combat.
  Thief                 0 exp extra       Rouges, masters of guile.
  Bard                  0 exp extra       Singers/Jesters/Storytellers.
  Sorcerer              0 exp extra       Mages of Battlefields.
  Thaumaturgist         0 exp extra       Mages of the Elements.
  Necromancer           0 exp extra       Mages of the Undead.
  Cleric                0 exp extra       Disciples of Deities.
  Healer                0 exp extra       Clerics of Healing.
  Shaman                0 exp extra       Prophets of Suffering.
  Ranger                200 exp extra     Warriors of Nature.
  Berserker             250 exp extra     Warriors of Rage.
  Dark-Knight           300 exp extra     Warriors of Evil.
  Druids                300 exp extra     Clerics of Nature.
  Paladin               350 exp extra     Warriors of Divinity.
  Cavalier              350 exp extra     Knights of honor an masters of
                                          mounted combat.  

Different classes have different skills and spells.

We also offer NON=PK Classes, and the CRAFT CLASSES:

ALCHEMIST, BLACKSMITH, TAILOR, JEWELER, MINER
~

#196
-1 BERSERKER BERSERKERS~
Berserkers are a sect of fighters who focuses more on brute strength and 
the direct approach instead of the complex combat maneuvers of the warriors.
They are known to have a foul and uncontrollable temper, walking a thin line 
between sanity and insanity.  At times, they are known to be overwhelmed by 
their temper and plunge into a frenzy of rage.  While in this state, a 
berserker is known to inflict massive amount of damage on their opponent as 
well as being able to withstand incredible blows from others.  There are times
when a berserker may be overcome by panic when they cannot see.  During this 
period the berserker may begin to land blows at frantic pace until his panic 
subsides.

At midpoint of their career, the members of this guild choose a focus for 
their deadly rage thus becoming unstoppable juggernauts of fury, or more
controlled zealots able to always calm their deadly anger only to call upon
it once again when it serves them best.

Late in their career they may choose a single weapon type to gain expertise
in, thus becoming more skilled with it then mere common swordsman. Soon after
their choice in Path Focus flowers into fruition and they gain further 
abilities dependant upon their earlier choices.

See also: RAGE, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS, WEAPON EXPERTISE

~

#197
-1 WARRIOR WARRIORS~
WARRIOR WARRIORS

Warriors are a sect of fighters who focuses their training on the
complex maneuvers of the art of combat.  Due to their training, 
they are the elite fighters of the land.  Warriors have the ability 
to wield every weapon effectively and can learn a wide variety of 
offensive as well as defensive skills to fight an opponent.

The profession of Warriors alone has the unique ability to dedicate
themselfs to particular choice of weapons hence gaining an opportunity
to become experts and masters of a given weapon type.  Through out 
their career warriors are given a choice of two weapon types in which
to become experts, and near peak of their power can further select
one more weapon to bring forth unto mastery becoming unmatched in
their skill.

This choice of weapon expertise and mastery further affects their
available choices when selecting from Warrior Lore late in their 
careers, and allows them to grant mercy to their opponents when battling
with a weapon of which they hold mastery.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, WEAPON MASTERY, WEAPON EXPERTISE, MERCY, FLEE

~

#198
-1 SHAMAN SHAMANS~
SHAMAN SHAMANS

Shamans are dark priests who seek to destroy the faith of others often
becoming prophets of death and suffering. Communing their powers from the Gods
and demons of the netherworld they possess a devastating array of maledictions
with which to plague their enemies. Their faces usually have a skeleton or
demonic appearance and can only live as evils.  

An evil cleric may choose to follow the path of the shaman when he/she has
achieved the thirtieth rank.  When the time comes, simply go to the shaman
guild in the nearest city and inquire.

High level shamans who fail to role-play properly may be outcast.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP EVIL.
~

#199
-1 CLERIC CLERICS~
CLERIC CLERICS

The paths of the cleric are many.  Some become healers and devote their life to
preserving peace and harmony within the realms.  Some become tainted and use
their communing gifts to destroy that same harmony.  This is a class strongly
divided between good and evil, and there is no in between.  Those clerics who
follow the light may eventually decide to dedicate themselves solely to the
healer mentality later on in life.  On the other side, those who traverse the
path of darkness may one day choose to follow the path of the shaman.

Whatever path you choose, remember one thing.  Clerics are the servants of the
Gods, and that is where their powers stem from.  Thus they, more than others,
are constantly being watched.  To stray from one's path is to stray from one's
God... and the punishment for doing such cannot even be described in words.
When your experience has grown sufficiently the appropriate option will be
offered to you.  May your choice be the right one.

For more help on Clerics choices between Healer and Shaman classes, see

'HELP SHAMAN' and HELP HEALER'.
~

#200
-1 HEALER HEALERS~
HEALER HEALERS

Healer is a profession who devotes their whole life to protection of life.
They avoid violence, with exception of their well known crusades against 
forces of undead.  Due to their devotion, they receive incredible powers 
from their gods to heal and protect themselves, as well as those around
them. 

Healers gain experience through healing and curing others of their ailments.
Their powers of healing extend to such degree that only they of all classes 
have the ability to reverse all effects of death upon a character, including
loss of experience and constitution through spell of resurrection.
Furthermore a mere presence of a Healer in a group lends safety, as they
will automatically attempt to save any group member from death, by pushing
them out of the area, and bravely stopping the deathblow with their own flesh.
Also, unlike shamans, they get access to clerical spell of Divine Intervention.

A good cleric can choose the path of the healer once he/she has achieved the 
30th rank.  When the time comes, simply go to the nearest healer guild and 
inquire. High level healers who fail to role-play properly may be outcaste.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP GOOD.

HELP CLERIC, GOOD, OUTCAST
~

#201
-1 DARK-KNIGHT DARK-KNIGHTS DARK~
DARK-KNIGHT DARK-KNIGHTS DARK

Dark-Knights are the embodiments of evil.  They seek to spread pain,
destruction and suffering to all, as well as reaping in the gains from a world
that they have weakened.  They have devoted their lives to the study of dark
magic as well as physical combat, making them a formidable opponent to all.

High level dark-knights who fail to role-play properly may be outcast.
For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP EVIL.
~

#202
-1 RANGER RANGERS~
RANGER RANGERS 

Rangers are the men and women who dedicated their life to study of the land
outside the cities.  They are often trackers and hunters who offer their skills
to those who are less skilled in outdoor environments leading exploring parties
deep into wilds of the land.  They are very adequate fighters with skills to
use the outdoor terrain to their advantage as well as some ability to dabble in
magic.  Rangers are able to blend in with his surroundings as well as move
quietly in the forests.  They also have been known to beckon the help the
creatures in the forest, seeking them to come to his aid or sending swarms of
insects to plague their enemies. 

They are dedicated to art of fired weapons such as bows as no other profession
is, and late in their career are able to specialize by selecting an area of
interest from Ranger Lore.  Much like warriors they are also capable of
excelling in various weapon types, thus being able to select two weapon types
during their career with which to be come experts.

HUMAN and LYCANTHROPE rangers of exceptional dedication to the cause of nature
may choose to joins the ranks of the Druids.  Those who are interested must be
of the 30th rank, and upon reaching it, must inquire at the Druid's Guild. 

See also: SELECT, RANGER LORE, WEAPON EXPERTISE
~

#203
-1 THAUMATURGIST THAUMATURGISTS~
THAUMATURGIST THAUMATURGISTS

Thaumaturgists is a profession of mages that forgo the gallantry of other
wizards and use their talents for channeling raw elemental forces to
create spells unmatched in their power by any other class.  Capable of
altering elements they can enchant weapons and armor, as well as surround
themselfs with elemental shields each with its own function and benefits.
Towards the pinnacle of their ability the are capable of infusing the 
raw arcane energy into common items to enhance their spells and reduce
strain to themselfs to the point where no other class is capable of 
matching the terrifying destructive powers of a fully trained Thaumaturgist.
~

#204
-1 SORCERER SORCERERS~
SORCERER SORCERERS

Sorcerers is the profession of spell casters trained in arts of battle field
and combat magic.  They frown on Thaumaturgist's blatant waste of energies and
use more efficient means to eliminate their opposition.  Capable of summoning
terrifying blades to use for offense and controlling weapons to do their
bidding they posses both strong offense and fair defense. It is rumored that a
well trained Sorcerer can easily hold his own against even the most powerful of
warriors.
~

#205
-1 NECRO NECROMANCER NECROMANCERS NECROS~
NECRO NECROMANCER NECROMANCERS NECROS

Necromancers are dark mages who have devoted their studies to the properties of
the undead.  They draw negative energy from the deceased and use it to their
goal.  From their studies, they have learned to animate corpses and control it
as his slave.  They are also able to fashion golems from the material they have
to do them services.  At the height of a necromancer's powers, he is able to
disintegrate another with a simple point of a finger.
~

#206
-1 THIEF THIEVES~
THIEF THIEVES

  Members of thieves guild walk about unseen to others, their weapons hidden
in concealed sheathes as they hide in shadows of cities.  The paths of their 
life are many; there are those whom only live for the thrill of yet another 
robbery, striking their victims unconscious only to rob them blind.  Others 
live for mischief and pry priceless items from the body of their victim, only 
to replace it with a worthless counterfeit replica.  And there are those in 
the guild hall whom disguise themselfs as members of other professions only 
to use the deadly abilities of backstab and circle stab to bloody their 
weapons in the backs of those who believed they were safe in their guild halls.

  Whatever their path in life, as the thieves rise in power and experience, 
many turn to more devious ways of surprising their victims creating intricate 
traps set about on paths, chests and other location to snare their prey.  An 
aspiring thief may chose a number of traps to learn from various types such 
as booby traps or mechanism thus customizing their own devious style.

Striking from shadows with deadly daggers, or lying patiently in wait for prey
to spring a trap, a skilled thief on the prowl is matched by few in arts of
surprise and guile.

See also: THIEF TRAPS
~

#207
-1 PALADIN PALADINS~
PALADIN PALADINS

Paladins are the embodiment of goodness.  They are holy warriors who are
empowered by the gods of Good to bring forth goodness throughout the realm.
They are noted for their chivalry, the characteristics of kindness,
generosity, mercy, and honor.  Paladins are able to learn an array of weapon
styles as well as defensive skills to aid them in combat and are given ability
to bring down their gods wrath upon their enemies.  Endowed with healing powers
near those of the clerics to grant help to the needy, Paladins are capable of
both powerful offense and defense.

Paladins are usually looked at by other warrior classes as Religious Zealots
with an axe to grind.

Paladins of any level who fail to role-play properly may be outcast.

For more information, see HELP OUTCAST and HELP GOOD.

See also: HELP MERCY
~

#208
-1 HALFLING HALFLINGS MOICHEN~
HALFLING HALFLINGS MOICHEN

Halflings are short, generally plump people, very much like small humans,
averaging 3 and 1/2 feet tall.  Their faces are round and broad and often quite
florid.  Their hair typically curly and the tops of  their feet are covered
with coarse hair.  Their typical life expectancy is approximately 150 years.

Halflings are sturdy and industrious, generally quiet and peaceful. Overall
they prefer the comforts of home to dangerous adventuring.  However, though
they may never look for adventure, they have a strange knack for stumbling
across them.  And, more than occasionally, adventure finds them.  Because of
their lives filled with collecting comforts and trinkets, they have the benefit
of above average wisdom, a result of their life experiences.

Halflings are not forward, but they are observant and conversational if in
friendly company.  They see wealth only as a means of gaining creature comforts
which they love.  Although Halflings are about the same height as gnomes, their
stout and sturdy build gives them a hearty constitution.  And, because of their
size and light weight as well as their peace loving nature, they've grown
amazingly agile and dextrous, able to dodge many of the attacks of those who
seek to harm them.  Halflings make excellent thieves, as they seek to avoid
direct conflicts by relying on their speed and agility to get them out of
dangerous situations.  They are lacking, however, in strength, due to their
small size and peaceful lifestyles.

Elves generally like Halflings in a patronizing sort of way.  Dwarves cheerfully
tolerate them, thinking halflings somewhat soft and harmless.  Gnomes, although
they drink more and eat less, like halflings best, feeling them kindred spirits.
Halflings are more open and outgoing than any of the above races, so they get
along with other races far better.

HALFLINGS CAN BE:
WARRIOR THIEF
~

#209
-1 'psion requirements' 'psi requirements'~
PSI REQUIREMENTS

Classes : Necromancer, Thaumaturgist, Sorcerer.

Races   : Illithid, Elf, Half-Elf, Human, Gnome, Faerie

Level   : 50

- MUST INCLUDE WORDS "psi application" in application subject
- Must be good or neutral aligned. Illithid is the exception
- Cannot be a member of any cabal

You must send a scroll of application to "Immortal", scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved. The scroll must bear the title which includes words psi
and application or it will not be considered. If your scroll is approved
you shall be made to know what else is required of you. 

If you are accepted to the secret society of the Psi, you will be reduced
to the first rank with applicable abilities, health and mind power. Any
skills which you may be allowed to use in the future will be kept, all
others are forgotten.

See also: SELECT, PSI 
~

#210
-1 'ASSASSIN CALL'~
ASSASSIN CALL

Syntax: cast 'assassin call' <victim>

 Though most royal houses have long standing pacts with Cabals, there are
inevitably situations which call for more trustworthy servants.  Thus each
house has at its beck and call its own set of skilled professionals whom are
rarely heard, and even less often seen. Much to the demise of their intended
victims.
~

#211
-1 JAIL JAILS~
JAIL JAILS

Syntax: jail <criminal> <sentence> <severity>
	jail <criminal> <execute>  <execution type>
	jail <criminal> <transfer> <new LAW>
	"jail" alone for list of criminals and their cells.
-----------------------------------------------------------	

General Tour of Jails of Mirlan:  

  The Age of Mirlan includes a comprehensive LAW system used to prosecute and
punish criminals who break the laws.   

  In a case of a WANTED flag being issued, the criminal is hunted down by
members of LAW cabal and apprehended through bringing the victim to near-death
state. At this point he/she will be stunned and placed in jail dictated by a LAW
member's hometown.

Upon apprehension ALL belongings of the criminal are put inside a container
marked with criminal's name, and given to the LAW who performed the
apprehension. A default sentence (NORMAL)of 20 hours will be issued by default.
The sentence can further be changed using "jail" command to following verdicts:

BAIL, EXTENDED, EXECUTION, RELEASE, TRANSFER.

After serving the set sentence or upon payment of set bail, the criminal is set
free, and the WANTED status removed.  No additional penalty of lost experience
etc. is enforced with exception being case of Execution.

See Convictions conviction
~

#212
-1 CONVICTION CONVICTIONS ~
Enjoying Your Stay in Jail Cells:

  When a criminal is captured by being stunned through combat with a LAW member
or any of their charmed followers, he/she is automatically placed in the least
populated cell of the jail.  The Cells are warded with powerful enchantments
which place following restrictions upon the mates.

- No violence of any kind.
- No magic or communing to gods is permitted.
- No transportation via arcane means (recall, gate, teleport)
- NO QUITTING.

While you are enjoying yourself alone or with other inmates of your cell you
may notice the following:
- Upon your arrival your health is automatically set to 25% and your mental
  powers are drained.
- You will not get hungry nor thirsty.
- You will not enter the "Void" due to inactivity.
- You will not disconnect due to inactivity.

Furthermore the exit and entrance to the cell is restricted by a magical force
field which will prevent movement of all objects with exception of LAW members.
LAW members may enter the cells for limited amount of time before being forced
to leave the area.

ATTENTION: If you drop link while under any verdict in a jail cell, there is
small chance that the executioner will grow angry and automatically upgrade
your sentence to an EXECUTION which are carried out regardless of connection.

For "How to bust out of Jail" read Escaping
~

#213
-1 ESCAPING~
So you want to escape, go on the lamb, bust the man, jump the wall...

  Each Jail has a JailGuard who's mind serves as a focus for the magical
barriers enclosing the JailCells.  As long as the JailGuard is alive and
well at the entrance of the Jail, the magical barriers will function and 
prevent any escape.
  The Jail Guard will automatically prevent entrance into the Jail by any
unauthorized personnel, and will announce any attack upon its person to all
present LAW.

**ANY ATTACK UPON JAIL WILL BE PUNISHABLE TO FULL EXTENT OF THE LAW**

  The moment the Jail Guard perishes, the magical barriers will loose their
focus and allow any prisoners who wish to leave to escape.  Any sentences still
in effect will be canceled on the first hour you spend outside of a jail cell.
If you choose to remain in your cell when the barriers drop, the sentence will
be carried out as normal.

**Note that escape from jail would most likely be viewed as a repeated offense
by LAW members.

So in summary:  As long as the JailGuard is present, movement to and from
the Jail and Jailcells is restricted to LAW members only.  Attack upon
those Guards is grounds for immediate prosecution by LAW.
~

#214
-1 NORMAL BAIL EXTEND EXTENDED EXECUTE EXECUTION RELEASE TRANSFER~
NORMAL, BAIL, EXTEND, EXECUTE, RELEASE TRANSFER

What You May be Sentenced With While in Jail:

NORMAL:
Default sentence given upon apprehension, it may be changed by a LAW in charge
of criminal to any other verdict.  Upon serving this sentence the criminal is
released free and innocent.

BAIL:
Criminals given BAIL sentence will serve remaining amount of time from the
NORMAL sentence, except in cases when remaining time was lower then 5 hours.
During the time on BAIL, anyone including the criminal can pay the bail using
"bail" command as follows:

Syntax: bail           : shows current bail info.
         bail <gold/cp> : pays YOUR bail in gold or cabal points 
         bail <criminal> <gold/cp> : pays given criminal's bail   

If the criminal does not pay the bail before end of the sentence the verdict is
automatically changed to EXTENDED with similar severity.  Time already served is
applied towards the new sentence.

EXTEND:
This is a fairly serious verdict which results in increased stay in our
beautiful jails by anywhere from 30 to 60 hours based on a LAW's members
judgement.  Upon serving the sentence the criminal is released.

EXECUTE:
The harshest of punishments reserved for repeat offenders and enemies of the
Law or Crown.  The LAW chooses out of large choice of various executions and
condemns the criminal to death.  It takes 12 hours for all to be prepared
(criminals are advised to spend the time with a local cleric) during which the
future entertainment is announced in the area of execution.  This verdict is
the only one that results in death and loss of experience.

RELEASE:
The criminal is released on following hour free and innocent.  This verdict may
NOT be placed after EXECUTION has been announced.

TRANSFER:
Transfers jurisdiction of criminal over to a new LAW member.  Only a LAW with
jurisdiction over the criminal has power to affect their fate in our glorious
jails.

HELP LAW, WANTED
~

#215
-1 LAW~
THE LAW CABAL

  These lawful individuals vow to protect the safety of those who seek shelter
behind the secure walls of civilization, and bring justice to those whose
rights have been violated. Formed during a great time of need, the LAW Cabal has
created to carry out the laws implemented by the Gods themselves.

They have been granted the power to flag offenders as criminals and the means to
deliver justice in their own hands.  Acting as judge and executioner, their word
is the law, and their decision shall be final.  They shall hunt criminals and
prosecute them to the full extent in the name of justice.

Those interested in joining must be of lawful ethos, have a intimate knowledge
of the law, have a good sense of lawfulness, and have neither been a criminal
nor violated any of the laws.  To apply for a position as a LAW member, post an
"application" to LAW, explaining your background, why you want to join, and why
you are qualified.  Those that are deemed worthy shall be given an interview
and might be asked to demonstrate their judgment and their determination.
Rangers while often used by LAW to track and hunt down the criminals are
closely scrutinized.

FOR RELATED TOPICS, TYPE 'HELP LAW'
~

#216
-1 HALF-ORC HALFORC HAURKEN~
HALF-ORC HALFORC HAURKEN

Half orcs are the opposites of half-elves.  They tend to get the worst traits
from the orc and human bloodlines.  Most citizen races will not deal with them
because of their wretched and vile natures. However, they are very strong and
tend to force their physical strengths to bully others weaker than themselves.
Not very wise in the way of the world is what keeps the half orcs from totally
over powering the world.  They procreate exceedingly fast.  The rabbits of the
races so to speak because they tend to war with just about everyone even
themselves and their own tribes.  

Half orcs can see in the dead of the night.  A thing that gives them an
advantage in many situations as they are also generally nocturnal beasts that
prefer the cover of the night skies to do their nasty deeds.  Half orcs tend to
be tall and brutish and usually very unpleasant to look at.

They generally are ill mannered and have no idea what polite means.  In general
the half orc race is more of a taker than a creator as they find that taking is
usually easier than thinking.  Most of what is known about the half orc race is
that of all the races they generally do not fear death and haphazardly have no
qualms about heavy risk verses minimal gain.  Life in a half orc society is
difficult and hard.  These traits tend to stick with them generation after
generation.  While they tend to be crude and ill mannered there are many
instances in recorded history of Mirlan where a half orc has over come his
natural dispositions and inborn desires to be evil.

HALF-ORCS CAN BE:
WARRIOR BERSERKER
~

#217
-1 HUMAN HUMANS ESTERI PAYLEN WUNGAR WYNNYC TZAMBULI~
HUMAN HUMANS ESTERI PAYLEN WUNGAR WYNNYC TZAMBULI

  The human states of Western Realms are composed of pure strains and mixtures
of five distinct ancient races.  Of these, three are native to this region
(the Paylens, Wungari, and Wynnics) while the other two, the Tzambuli and the
Esterians, migrated into the central regions of Darengal from the south and
north, respectively. 

Esteri (ess-TAIR-ree):  The Esterians are a tall people of an olive to tan skin
tone.  Their hair is black to brown, while eye colors vary from green to hazel.
The only region in the Western Realms that shows a pure strain of Esterian is
the Venpal Islands off the western coast of Palinor but many pure blooded
Esterians still dwell in the northern country beyond the Raider Mountains.

The Esterian people migrated from the northern wastes of Darengal, far beyond
the Greater Raider Mountains that form the northern border of the Western
Realms.  Raiders and seamen by nature, they raided into the civilized
countries south of them and finally settled portions of the northwest and
central coastal regions, near the present day lands of Palinor and Restolynd.
The Kingdom of Palinor is an admixture of Paylens and Esterians in about a
50:50 proportion.  Esterian blood comprises about a third of the Restolynd
populace and roughly 15% of the Punts show some Esterian features.  The
Esterians are extremely skilled sailors and seamen and ships from the regions
populated by them are of exceptional quality and strength. 

Paylen (PAY-lehn):  The Paylish are a stout people, shorter than the average
human.  Their skin is fair to tan and their hair runs from honey blonde to red,
and is usually quite curly.  Blue and green eyes are dominate with small
amounts of brown or hazel.

Paylens were native to the Serpentine River Valley in central and southern
Palinor.  With the coming of the Esterians, the Paylens were gradually either
assimilated into the conquering Esterians or pushed eastwards over the Lesser
Raider Mountains.  The only areas where Paylens of pure descent can be found
today are isolated communities within the Scarred Lands, the Norre Hills, and
the fringes of the Shadowfir Forest.  Paylen blood is found in 50% of the
people of Palinor, a third of the people of Restolynd, and about 15-20% of the
Darhelmish.  The Paylens are skilled craftsmen and doughty fighters, possessing
a determined nature once aroused.  Weapons and other military goods produced by
those of Paylen blood are highly sought after.

Wungar (WUHNG-gahr):  The Wungari are a short and slender race possessing skin
tones ranging from copper to deep brown.  Their eyes are black, dark brown, and
brown while their hair is almost uniformly glossy black, though some dark brown
does occur.

Native to the plains lying between the rivers Sehha and Zalang, the Wungari have
not spread out to thedegree that the other races have.  Indeed, the Wungari are
one of the few races that have maintained some degree of racial purity as the
nomads who roam the Plains of the Wungari and the Great Wastes of the Thule
today are the direct descents of the original nomadic tribesmen.  The Wungari
bloodline is not limited to this region alone, however.  Nearly 45% of the
people of Punt are descendants of the Wungari and an almost equal amount of
Wungari blood is found within the Kingdom of Zalango.  The Wungari are a most
fierce and warlike people and their horsemanship skills are without equal.
Peerless too are the medium horses they raise and these are highly sough after
in the southern lands.

Wynnyc (WIHN-nick):  The Wynnics are an extremely fair people with light skins
and hair colors ranging from platinum blonde to sandy brown.  Wynnycs have eye
colors of pale green and blue and light grey and their hair is usually curly
though not overly so.

The original Wynnyc tribesmen came from the river valley that today bears their
name, the Wynnych.  Pressure from the warlike Wungari to their south forced
migrations of Wynnycs that led to the settlement of to the north and east.
Pure blood Wynnycs are found throughout the Eastern Empire, the Principality
of Maelgawe, and the Theocracy of Astrelas, where they comprise most of the
population.  Nearly 80% of the people that dwell in the lands of Darhelm are of
Wynnyc descent and they also make up a third of bloodline of the people of
Restolynd.  Almost all of the half-elves dwelling within Luva are also of Wynnyc
heritage though they have been isolated from their kin for so long as to be more
elven than anything else.  Wynnycs are highly skilled craftsmen and traders as
well as being exceptional in the ways of the arts.  Most all skalds and bards of
any repute come from Wynnyc lands.
 
Tzambuli (TZAM-bool):  The Tzambuli are a tall and strong race, possessing of a
heavy muscular build.  Their skin tones are black to brown and their hair is
inky black, tending to be fine and straight.  The eyes of the Tzambuli are
varied, being brown and black normally but a fair amount of them have dark blue
(almost violet) or amber so bright as to seem golden: this is seen as a sign of
magic-using ability.

The origins of the Tzambuli are shrouded in mystery and legend.  All that is
known for certain is that the first emerged from the Rethewetar Jungle close to
two hundred years before the forming of the ancient dwarven kingdom of Muzara,
though legend tells of their fleeing a great evil.  They carried their culture
and civilization intact and spread throughout the southern portion of Darengal;
only the fierce Wungari managed to keep them at bay.  The Sultanate of Jambool
is comprised exclusively of Tzambulese and their blood can also be found in
Punt where it makes up the ancestry of about 40% of the people.  Tzambuli blood
is also common in Zalango, where it is found in nearly half of the Zalangese.
The Tzambuli have an intrinsic flair for magic and have practiced it for
centuries.  They are also possessed of a cruel nature and an acquisitive
nature, making them ruthless expansionists.

HUMANS CAN BE:  ANY CLASS:  
~

#218
-1 CONE~
CONE OF FORCE

Syntax: cone

Using their innate psionic powers, Illithids can project a cone of force with
their mind alone.  The force will cause moderate damage to everyone in the
attack range of the Illithid, stunning them in the process.  Though this
requires a lot of mental effort on their part, so the Illithid can only use 
this power once per day.
~

#219
-1 LEECH~
LEECH

Illithids have a special skill, in which they wrap their tentacles around the
victim's head, and run an electric current through their tentacles which
penetrates the victims skull.  Specialized sensors at the tips of the tentacles
reads the feedback of the electric currents and if successful they are able to
steal the victim's memory temporarily.  The memory is not lost from the victim.
However, the shock to the head have a chance of causing disorientation to the
victim. With this skill, Illithids can gain temporary proficiency of spells
from sorcerers, thaumaturgists, necromancers and psions.  Due to the enormous
strain it takes to retain the memory, the Illithid will be drained for a short
while after the affects have worn off.

Only the more experienced Illithids can use this skill.
~

#220
-1 ILLITHID ILLITH 'MIND FLAYER'~
ILLITHID ILLITH MIND FLAYER
Illithids are an evil race of subterranean creatures who are accomplished
sorcerers and very adept at necromancy.  They possess an intelligence and
wisdom to match almost any other race above or below the surface.

With their extraordinary capabilities in these arts they are a very dominate
force below the surface of Mirlan.

They have innate abilities that make them difficult to face down with magic.
However, due to their nearly exclusive magical abilities they suffer from most
common physical attacks except for one.  Due to their highly rubbery skins,
maces and the like do not tend to harm them nearly as much as other races.  

When in extremes they have the ability to enter a trance like state which helps
them ward off death. 

Physically the Illithid has a mauve-like skin tone to them, large praying mantis
like eyes and tentacles.  Usually the tentacles are indicative of an illithids
age.  Generally, they are born with three and gain a tentacle every ten or so
years.  This is a general rule of thumb as is with all creatures, nature can
sometimes play cruel jokes on races.  They are bipedal and in other respects
look like any other humanoid. All Illithids are bald with cone shaped heads.
They are without exception devoid of hair.  This has led some researchers to
believe that the Illithids are not mammalian but more amphibian in nature.

Illithids have acquired a unique talent for feeding.  They use the tentacles to
stun and suck in their prey.  Illithids cannot wield weapons, except for the
weapons of the necromancer or sorcerers.  

Nothing is known of the social and reproductive habits of the illithids as most
who try and find out, find themselves dead or worse, a slave of these vile
creatures.  They are known to have a great society beneath the depths of Mirlan
and that they are very well organized and capable of launching large assaults
when they desire.

ILLITHIDS CAN BE:
NECROMANCER SORCERER
~

#221
-1 LIZARDMAN 'LIZARD MAN' LIZARDMEN 'LIZARD MEN'~
LIZARD MAN LIZARDMAN LIZARDMEN LIZARD MEN

Lizard men are just as they sound.  Bipedal humanoids with lizard heads and
tails.  They are scaley and have very tough hides naturally.  They are
extremely very well adept with the spear and this skill is passed down as a
cultural mandate.  It is as if they were born with a spear in their hands.  

Lizard men tend to range from a dull gray to a deep forest green scale color.
They usually try to avoid using too heavy of armor as it impedes their natural
scaley armor.  This does not preclude them from using it, its just a general
preference of the majority of them.  Their eyes are much like the lizards.
Usually a yellowish color with the slim slit of black.  Due to their cold
blooded nature lizard men have never acquired the ability like many other
demi-humans to see in the dark of night.  

Habitually, lizard men tend to make their homes in swamps, marshes and other
wet-lands.  

Lizard men are omnivores.  They do however prefer the flesh of humans and
consider it a healthy treat.  However this tendency does not make them "evil"
it is merely a racial preference.  

LIZARD MEN CAN BE:
WARRIORS
~

#222
-1 TRANSFORM~
TRANSFORM

Syntax: transform

An innate skill of the lycan's which allows them to transform into a certain
beast.  This ability is only available to experienced beasts.  The lycan's can
manually transform when they have not used it for a while, and their health is
dangerously low.  Some times during combat when the adrenaline rush is high,
instincts will take over and the beast will emerge.

Each sex has different beasts they transform into, and each beast for the sexes
have different attributes.  Male beasts are TIGER, WOLF, BOAR, and female
beasts are, OCELOT, FOX, FALCON.  These beasts decide when the lycanthrope is
ready for them, and they shall pick who they shall grant their powers to.
~

#223
-1 PROBE~
PROBE

Syntax: probe <direction>

An innate skill of the lycanthropes which allows to determine if there is
danger in the neighboring room.  Lycanthrope's instincts warns them of
aggressive mobs and no-exit rooms.  This skill is granted to young lycan's.
~

#224
-1 MAGIC~
MAGIC

Magic is the sole gift of Dabyula.  Through Dabyula's gift to the races of
Mirlan it can be learned and used.  There are several types of magics as well
as several different spheres of influence or "classes" a character can pick
from.

See also: AFFLICTIVE MENTAL MALEDICTIVE PROTECTIVE CURATIVE RESTORATIVE
~

#225
-1 AFFLICTIVE~
AFFLICTIVE

Spells which cause direct damage to one's target are known as afflictive
spells.  Some equipment can better absorb the shock of such spells, so
that one takes less damage from them when one is wearing them.  Also,
those who have greater strength can better endure the sheer force of
these spells.  Notable spells of affliction include wrath and hellstream.
~

#226
-1 MENTAL~
MENTAL

Spells which produce a wide range of magical effects are known as mental
spells.  Some equipment can help one to better resist the affects of these
spells, causing the spell to fail.  Also, those who are more intelligent
can better understand the workings of such spells, and therefore better
avoid its effects.  Notable mental spells include summon, sleep and dispel
magic.
~

#227
-1 MALEDICTIVE~
MALEDICTIVE

Spells which use negative energy to cause harm to one's target are known
as maledictive spells.  Some equipment can be used to bolster one's natural
defenses against such spells, causing the spell to fail.  Also, those whose
bodies have higher constitution will find their life force to resist more
strongly the negative energy of these spells.  Notable maledictive spells
include blasphemy, blindness and plague.
~

#228
-1 PROTECTIVE~
PROTECTIVE

Spells which are granted to protect or enhance oneself or another are
known as protective spells.  Protective spells can be granted only to
those in group range, and cannot be granted to those of conflicting
alignment. Notable protective  spells include sanctuary and haste.
~

#229
-1 CURATIVE~
CURATIVE

Spells which heal wounds from combat are known as curative spells.  These
spells can only be granted to those in group range and those who have not
excited by recent combat, except for those of conflicting alignment.
Notable curative spells include cure critical and heal.
~

#230
-1 RESTORATIVE~
RESTORATIVE

Spells which bring one's body back to normalcy are known as restorative
spells.  These spells can only be granted to those in group range and those
who have not been excited by recent combat.  Any who have been granted these
spells may choose to restore another, regardless of alignment. Notable
restorative spells include cure blindness and cancellation.
~

#231
-1 LYCANTHROPE LYCAN LYCANTHROPES LYCANS~
LYCANTHROPE LYCAN LYCANTHROPES

Lycanthropes or Lycans as their race prefers to be called are strange
aberrations of both man and beast.  They have an ability to transform from
human to their were-form.  Each lycan-form is a subrace of the lycan race.
Many racial qualities are the same except for when they change into their
were-form.  

Lycans are the product of Ejamina.  She desired great forest protectors to
help keep the lands of Mirlan in balance.  She sought to give aid to many of
her druid priests and in doing so felt that a representative of certain animals
she favored for their natural qualities should be used.  The first lycans were
some of the most faithful of her druid priests.  She chose them not for their
power as priests but more so as their closeness to nature and the natural order
of things.  The truly devote were hand picked by her and she bestowed upon
these priests this new power.  Thusly these once human priests and priestesses,
became the first of the lycan race.  For many years the lycans and the druids
worked hand in hand but as time went on the lycans and the druids found that
not always did they see eye to eye on the care of the forests and the way to
balance Mirlan when it became unbalanced.  There is no greatlove loss between
the lycans and the druids, but for the most part they do tend to work together
when it is necessary.  Lycans tend to be a favorite of Ejamina still.  

She bestowed upon the lycans the ability to communicate with other animals and
call certain beasts of the forest to aid them in their trials and tribulations.

These are the favored lycan subraces that Ejamina creates

LYCAN-BOAR LYCAN-FALCON LYCAN-FOX LYCAN-OCELOT LYCAN-TIGER
LYCAN-WOLF

SEE ALSO:  TRANSFORM

With the transformation comes some animal-like abilities that are also conferred
upon the lycan as a boon to their race.

LYCANS CAN BE:
RANGERS
~

#232
-3 unique~ CHAMELEON~
chameleon

syntax:

Slith with their reptile-like origin, have the ability to become as the chameleon.
This provides much needed camouflage by adapting to their surroundings.  If the slith
changes location, they will have to readapt to their new surroundings.
~

#233
-1 MINOTAUR MINOTAURS~
MINOTAUR MINOTAURS

Minotaurs are a race of demi-humans.  These fantastic creations of nature look
very much like large humans with bulls heads.  They are large creatures,
normally reaching upwards of eight feet.  These massive beasts are extremely
powerful but they do lack the wisdom, intelligence and greater dexterities of
the other races.

They more than make up for these apparent weaknesses by their strength and
tenacity.  Minotaurs are extremely quick to anger and are very foul tempered.
They can appear to be very cruel but in reality it is their nature to not care
one way or the other how they are perceived by the other races.  They are
jealous to a fault of their mates and of their race.  Many a man found his head
on the ground after a minotaur felt slighted.  Minotaurs are great wielders of
the axe.

A weapon that will generally be found to be used almost exclusively by minotaur
guards.  They have absolutely no fear of anything or any one.  Something that
tends to get them into situations they sometimes cannot fight their way out of.  

Minotaur culture is run by the strong.  The mentality of these limited societies
is that of the ill, infirmed and weak have no business taking up valuable
resources that could be used by the strong.  A sick minotaur is counting his or
her last days.  This fact does not seem to bother most minotaurs as they do not
fear death but embrace it as a part of their psychological makeup.  Death in
battle is looked upon as a glorious thing.

Minotaurs tend to have problems controlling their tempers but this has given
them an edge in battle as they have become very good at beign berserkers.

Minotaurs can use their great horns in battle as if it were an extra arm and
they use this charging very effectively when ramming an opponent.

MINOTAURS CAN BE:
BERSERKERS
~

#234
-1 MINER MINERS MINING~
MINER MINERS

Miners are masters of digging.

Skilled miners find and process metals of all sorts.  Gold, silver, copper
and iron.  They can take this metal and transform it into armor and weapons
of all sorts.  The higher level the miner is, the better equipment they can
make. Miners advance in levels primarily through the selling and making of
gear as well as through superior role-play.  Miners are some of the most
sought after people in the lands due to their skill and the power they
represent.  Make no mistake, befriending a miner can have serious advantages
as well as making one an enemy having dire repercussions.

Historically miners did not stray too far from the mines.  However, with
the ravaging of the mountains and the perils of collapsing mines, an
entrepreneurial dwarf some years ago, found that the metals that fall from
the skies in the form of meteorites was just as good and lent to his desire
for traveling the lands of Mirlan.

This is a NON-PK class.  See also help NPK or NONPK for details.
~

#235
-1 MORP MPROG OPROG RPROG~
Introduction:

  MORPs or Mob Obj Room Program is a script language utilized to give life
and reactive ability to various parts of the MUD environment.  Each type 
of morp exists on a separate set of vnums (HELP VNUM) much like objects,
rooms and mobs do.  

Each type of morp can be attached to corresponding type of environment
(object/mob/room) and easily reused.  For example a particular mprog can
be assigned to any number of mobs, with each mob responding in the same
manner when the mprog is activated.

Activation of the morps is dictated by a "trigger type" of the morp which
is set when a specific morp is assigned to a mobile.  Multiple instances
of same morp can be assigned to same mob with various triggers, resulting
in the morp being activated in various situations.

Following is a list of various helps relating to MORPs.

1)  HELP MORP2............Creation, and Editing of morps
2)  HELP ADD, DEL.........Attaching and Deleting morps to/from environment
3)  HELP TRIGGER..........Morp Trigger reference
4)  HELP SCRIPT...........Writing Morp Scripts
5)  HELP SCRIPT2..........Morp script reference
5)  HELP SCRIPT3..........Morp script reference
6)  HELP MPROGS...........Mprog command reference
7)  HELP OPROGS...........Oprog command reference
8)  HELP RPROGS...........Rprog command reference
~

#236
-1 MORP2~
HELP MORP2

note: <required argument> [optional argument]

Creation and Editing of Morps.

Creation:
syntax: edit <mprog/rprog/oprog> create <vnum>
             Above creates a morp with given vnum, and places
             the user into morp edit mode.

Editing:
        edit <mprog/rprog/oprog> <vnum>
             Above edits a given morp and places user into morp edit mode.  

Once in morp edit mode:
syntax: code          enters standard OLC editor for the morp script
        list          lists all mprog/rprog/oprogs in the area.

Any changes to a morp are automatically updated throughout the mud.
~

#237
-1 HELP ADD DEL~
note: <required argument> [optional argument]

Once a morp is created, and its script written and entered, it has
to be attached to a given mob/room/object and its trigger specified.
To attach a morp to its corresponding object (oprogs to obj, mprogs 
to mobs etc.) use:

Syntax:  add [vnum] [trigger] [phrase]     
          vnum:    vnum of the morp to be attached
          trigger: trigger type for the morp (HELP TRIGGER for reference,
                   ? rprog/mprog/oprog for list of available triggers)
          phrase:  argument for the trigger (HELP TRIGGER)

Once a morp is attached, all objects/mobs/rooms are updated with that
morp.  Use mpstat, rpstat, opstat to selectively query the details of 
specific mob/object/room.

To remove a morp use:
Syntax: del <number of morp to remove>
        removes the given morp on the list shown in mob edit.      

examples:add 3000 GRALL 100
         add 3000 SPEECH quest
         del 0
~

#238
-1 TRIGGER TRIGGERS~
TRIGGERS

Following is a list of trigger and their argument/phrases.  Keep in mind
not all types of morps support all of those.  Use ? <mprog/oprog/rprog>
for exact list of supported triggers when editing an object/room/mob.

"OWNER" refers to the mob/obj/room that has the trigger assigned to it.
"ACTOR" refers to the mob/obj/room that set off the trigger.

More on triggers: HELP ACT-TRIGGER     HELP KILL-TRIGGER
	          HELP SPEECH-TRIGGER  HELP ENTRY-TRIGGER
		  HELP TELL-TRIGGER    HELP GREET-TRIGGER
		  HELP RANDOM-TRIGGER  HELP GRALL-TRIGGER
 		  HELP FIGHT-TRIGGER   HELP GIVE-TRIGGER
		  HELP HPCNT-TRIGGER   HELP BRIBE-TRIGGER
	          HELP DEATH-TRIGGER   HELP DELAY-TRIGGER
		  HELP SURR-TRIGGER    HELP EXIT-TRIGGER
		  HELP EXALL-TRIGGER   HELP GET-TRIGGER
		  HELP PUT-TRIGGER     HELP DROP-TRIGGER
		  HELP SIT-TRIGGER     HELP USE-TRIGGER	    
		  HELP LOOK-TRIGGER    HELP SPECIAL-TRIGGER

See Also: HELP SCRIPT
~

#239
-1 ACT-TRIGGER~
ACT: 

  Triggered when a text sent to the owner matches a keyword in phrase.
  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)

Example:
add 300 act kneels
add 300 act bows
~

#240
-1 SPEECH-TRIGGER~
SPEECH:

  Triggered when a text said by the actor and heard by owner matches 
  a keyword in phrase.  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)

Example:
add 300 speech quest
add 300 speech armor of light
~

#241
-1 TELL-TRIGGER~
TELL:

  Triggered when a text sent through "tell" by the actor to owner matches 
  a keyword in phrase.  Use "*" for any text. (case insensitive)

Example:
add 300 speech quest
add 300 speech armor of light
~

#242
-1 RANDOM-TRIGGER~
RANDOM:

  Triggered on each update of the owner (actor = owner).  Phrase is the 
  percent chance to trigger. (100 always, 0 never)
  Mob and Object update occurs at approx. 30 second intervals.  Room/Area
  update occurs at 1 min. intervals.

Example:
add 300 random 100  
~

#243
-1 FIGHT-TRIGGER~
FIGHT:

  Triggered each beginning of owner's combat round.  Actor is the current
  opponent during the combat round.  Phrase is the percent chance to trigger
  on owner's combat round. (100 = always).

Example:
add 300 fight 100  
~

#244
-1 HPCNT-TRIGGER~
HPCNT:  (HitPerCeNT)
  Triggered on owner's combat round if owner's health falls below the number
  specified in phrase.  (100 = full health, 10 = 1/10 maximum health)

Example:
add 300 hpcnt 75
~

#245
-1 DEATH-TRIGGER~
DEATH:

  Triggered when the owner dies.  Actor is the person that dealt the killing 
  blow.  Phrase is percent chance to trigger.  (100 is always)

Example:
add 300 death 50
~

#246
-1 KILL-TRIGGER~
KILL:

  Triggered when the owner kills something.  Actor is the mob killed.  Also
  triggered when owner mortally wounds the actor.  (Actor at that point is 
  affected by "mortally wounded" affect)

Example:
add 300 kill 100
~

#247
-1 ENTRY-TRIGGER~
ENTRY:

  NOT YET CODED FOR USE.
~

#248
-1 GREET-TRIGGER~
GREET:

 Triggered when the actor walks into the room with owner in it.  The owner must
be able to see the actor, and cannot be fighting, or be in a position different
from default_position set in OLC.  Phrase is chance to trigger (100 is always)

Example:
add 300 greet 100
~

#249
-1 GRALL-TRIGGER~
GRALL:
  Triggered when the actor walks into the room with owner in it.  Unlike GREET
  GRALL triggers regardless of state of the owner, its position or if it can 
  see the actor.  Phrase is chance to trigger (100 is always)

Example:
add 300 grall 100
~

#250
-1 GIVE-TRIGGER~
GIVE:
  Triggered when an object is given to the owner.  Actor is the thing that gave
  the object to the owner.  Phrase can be: vnum, name, or "all".

Example:
add 300 give 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is given)
add 300 give sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is given)
add 300 give all         (trigger on any given object)
~

#251
-1 BRIBE-TRIGGER~
BRIBE:
  Triggered when the owner is given amount of gold that is more then or equal to
  amount in phrase.

Example:
add 300 bribe 10000      (trigger only when given 10k or more gold)
~

#252
-1 DELAY-TRIGGER~
DELAY:
  Triggered when the delay on the owner changes from 1 to 0.  Each type of
  morp has ability to set delay on its owner through use of command 
  "delay <time in ticks>".  When the delay timer reaches 0, the DELAY trigger
  is run.  Owner = actor, phrase is chance to trigger. (100 is always)

Example:
add 300 delay 100
~

#253
-1 SURR-TRIGGER~
SURR:

  NOT CODED FOR USE YET.
~

#254
-1 EXIT-TRIGGER~
EXIT:
  Triggered when the actor exists the room with owner in it.  The owner must
  be able to see the actor, and cannot be fighting, or be in a position 
  different from default_position set in OLC.  Phrase is the direction that
  will cause the trigger (up, down, east, west, north, south)

  NOTE:
    All morp have ability to use "stop <target>" command, that will cause the
    target player/mob to abort exit in that direction.  Useful for blocking
    certain rooms, and exists unless specific conditions are met.
    Example:  
      room stop $n
  END NOTE

Example:
add 300 exit down
~

#255
-1 EXALL-TRIGGER~
EXALL:
  Triggered when the actor exists the room with owner in it. Unlike EXIT
  EXALL triggers regardless of state of the owner, its position or if it can 
  see the actor.  Phrase is the direction that will cause the trigger (up, down
  east, west, north, south)

  NOTE:
    All morp have ability to use "stop <target>" command, that will cause the
    target player/mob to abort exit in that direction.  Useful for blocking
    certain rooms, and exists unless specific conditions are met.
    Example:  
      room stop $n
  END NOTE

Example:
add 300 exit north
~

#256
-1 GET-TRIGGER~
GET:
  Triggered when the actor uses "get" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".

Example:
add 300 get 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is taken)
add 300 get sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is taken)
add 300 get all         (trigger on any object being taken)
~

#257
-1 PUT-TRIGGER~
PUT:
  Triggered when the actor uses "put" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".

Example:
add 300 put 200         (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is taken)
add 300 put sword       (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is taken)
add 300 put all         (trigger on any object being taken)
~

#258
-1 DROP-TRIGGER~
DROP:
  Triggered when the actor uses "drop" command on an object.  Phrase can 
  be: vnum, name, or "all".

Example:
add 300 drop 200     (trigger only when object with vnum 200 is dropped)
add 300 drop sword   (trigger only when object with keyword "sword" is dropped)
add 300 drop all     (trigger on any object being dropped)
~

#259
-1 SIT-TRIGGER~
SIT:
  Triggered when the actor uses "sit", "rest" or "sleep" on an object.  Phrase
  is the chance to trigger. (100 is always)

Example:
add 300 sit 100
~

#260
-1 USE-TRIGGER~
USE:
  Triggered when the actor attempts to use the "use" command onto the owner 
  object.  Phrase is chance to activate (100 is always). Various types of
  objects can be used and they are checked in following order and location:
  1) held item
  2) worn item
  3) item in room
  4) item in inventory

  "Use" command in universal to all objects (wands, staves, and morp objects) 
  and both spells (wands/staves) and morp is activated on use.

Example:
add 300 use 100
~

#261
-1 LOOK-TRIGGER~
LOOK:
  Triggered when the actor used "examine" or "look" on the owner object or mob.
  Phrase is chance to activate (100 is always)
  The morp is run AFTER the actor looks at the owner.
~

#262
-1 SPECIAL-TRIGGER~
SPECIAL:
  Special triggers are checked when specific spec_function checks them.  This is
  limited to mobs only, and only to specific functions.  Check with Implementors
  for details.
~

#263
-1 SCRIPT SCRIPTS~
Script commands:
  These are commands mostly used in the if-else-endif blocks to direct the
flow of the morp as well as make logical decisions.  The syntax for use of
the if-else-endif block is as follows:

if condition
  command/s evaluated if TRUE
else
  commands/s evaluated if FALSE
endif

Since the "else" statement is not required, the simple if-endif block 
is as follows:

if condition
  command/s evaluated if TRUE
endif

Break command:
  The break keyword will cause the morp to abort and stop when it is encountered.
  It is useful in controlling the flow of the program especial in conjunction 
with

  if-else-endif blocks.  Example:

if rand 30
  mob echo TRUE
else
  break
endif

mob echo This is not shown unless preceded by TRUE.

See also: HELP SCRIPT2, HELP SCRIPT3, HELP TRIGGERS
~

#264
-1 SCRIPT2~
What follows is reference of script commands and examples of their use:

COMMAND         EXAMPLE                   EXPLANATION
"rand"        if rand 30              if random number < 30 
"mobhere"     if mobhere fido         is there a 'fido' here 
              if mobhere 1233         is there mob vnum 1233 here 
"objhere"     if objhere bottle       is there a 'bottle' here 
              if objhere 1233         is there obj vnum 1233 here 
"mobexists"   if mobexists fido       is there a fido somewhere 
              if mobexists 1233       is there a mob vnum 1233 somewhere 
"objexists"   if objexists sword      is there a sword somewhere 
              if objexists 1233       is there an obj vnum 1233 somewhere 
"people"      if people > 4           does room contain > 4 people 
"players"     if players > 1          does room contain > 1 pcs 
"mobs"        if mobs > 2             does room contain > 2 mobiles
"clones"      if clones > 3           are there > 3 mobs of same vnum here
"order"       if order == 0           is mob the first in room 
"hour"        if hour > 11            is the time > 11 o'clock (military time)
"ispc"        if ispc $n              is $n a pc 
"isnpc"       if isnpc $n             is $n a mobile 
"isgood"      if isgood $n            is $n good 
"isevil"      if isevil $n            is $n evil 
"isneutral"   if isneutral $n         is $n neutral 
"isimmort"    if isimmort $n          is $n immortal 
"ischarm"     if ischarm $n           is $n charmed 
"isfollow"    if isfollow $n          is $n following someone 
"isactive"    if isactive $n          is $n's position > SLEEPING 
"isdelay"     if isdelay $I           does $I have mobprog pending 
"isvisible"   if isvisible $n         can mob see $n 
"hastarget"   if hastarget $I         does $I have a valid target 
"istarget"    if istarget $n          is $n mob's target 
"exists"      if exists $n            does $n exist somewhere 
"affected"    if affected $n blind    is $n affected by blind 
"act"         if act $I sentinel      is $I flagged sentinel 
"off"         if off $I berserk       is $I flagged berserk 
"imm"         if imm $I fire          is $I immune to fire 
"carries"     if carries $n sword     does $n have a 'sword' 
              if carries $n 1233      does $n have obj vnum 1233 

[Continued in HELP SCRIPT3]
~

#265
-1 SCRIPT3~
[Continued from HELP SCRIPT2]

COMMAND         EXAMPLE                   EXPLANATION
"wears"        if wears $n lantern      is $n wearing a 'lantern' 
               if wears $n 1233         is $n wearing obj vnum 1233 
"has"          if has $n weapon         does $n have obj of type weapon
"uses"         if uses $n armor         is $n wearing obj of type armor 
"name"         if name $n puff          is $n's name 'puff' 
"pos"          if pos $n standing       is $n standing 
"cabal"        if cabal $n 'whatever'   does $n belong to cabal 'whatever'
"race"         if race $n dragon        is $n of 'dragon' race 
"class"        if class $n mage         is $n's class 'mage' 
"objtype"      if objtype $p scroll     is $p a scroll 
"vnum"         if vnum $I == 1233       virtual number check
"hpcnt"        if hpcnt $I > 30         hit point percent check 
"room"         if room $I == 1233       room virtual number 
"sex"          if sex $I == 0           sex check 
"level"        if level $n < 5          level check 
"align"        if align $n < -1000      alignment check 
"money"        if money $n > 100        does char have more then 100 gold
"objval0"      if objval0 $I > 1000     object value[] checks 0..4 
"objval1"
"objval2"
"objval3"
"objval4"
"grpsize"      if grpsize $n > 6        group size check 
"affspell"     if affspell $n 'bless'   check if affected by spell bless
"getdelay"     if getdelay > 1          check trigger owner delay
"iscarried"    if iscarried  $I         if object $I is carried 
"isworn"       if isworn $I             if object $I is worn 
"followers"    if followers $n > 6      charmies follower check 
"objcost"      if objcost $I > 1000     object cost 
"isbloody"     if isbloody $n           check if char is bloody 
~

#266
-1 OLC EDIT~
Syntax: EDIT AREA [create/reset] [vnum]	- Area Creation and Repoping.
Syntax: EDIT ROOM ( [create] [vnum] )	- Room Creation and Editing.
Syntax: EDIT OBJ  [create] <vnum>       - Object Creation and Editing.
Syntax: EDIT MOB  [create] <vnum>	- Mobile Creation and Editing.
Syntax: ASAVE  <world/area/changed/list>- Save Editing to Disk.
Syntax: ALIST                           - Listing of Areas.
Syntax: RESET  See Help Resets.		- Set Game Resets.

Definition: [optional]  <required>  (combined arguments)

     The above commands are used to expand the game world.  The original
code is based on was written by Surreality and installed in The Isles by Locke.
It was then converted to work with Envy by Jason Dinkel, and ported to ROM
2.3 by Hans Birkeland (Hugin). Port to Rom 2.4 by Ivan Toledo (ver 1.5a).

     Inside an editor, typing COMMANDS lists working commands and ? gives
help. AEDIT and REDIT default to the current area or room. EDIT ROOM RESET
resets the current room.  Most commands with no arguments display syntax.

See also help: AEDIT REDIT MEDIT OEDIT
~

#267
0 ALIST~
Syntax: ALIST

This command gives you a listing of all the areas along with their
vnum assignments and the builder(s) assigned to editing them.
~

#268
50 TEMPERATURE~
precipitation values:

> 35: raining
30-35: sleeting
< 30: snowing
~

#269
0 AEDIT~
Syntax: edit area	 -Enters the editor for the current area.
Syntax: edit area <vnum> -Enters the editor for the selected area.

The follow commands are available from within the AEDITOR:

age <number>        - set the age of the area
builder <player>    - toggle that builder's access
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create              - create a brand new area and switch to it
done                - exits the area editor and returns to normal play
filename <filename> - change the file name for the area (be careful)
name <name>         - change the 'AREAS' name of this area
reset               - resets the current area
security <rating>   - set the security rating for this area
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the area stats
vnum <lower> <upper>- set the lower and upper vnum's
lvnum <lower>       - set the lower vnum
uvnum <upper>       - set the upper vnum
<flags>             - area flags, type ? AREA for a list
~

#270
0 REDIT~
Syntax: edit room   -Enters the editor for the current room.

The following commands are available from within the REDITOR:

commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create <vnum>       - creates a room with a certain vnum
desc                - edit description of room
done                - exists the room editor and returns to normal play
ed                  - type this command for additional extra-description help
format              - format(wordwrap) the room description
name <room title>   - changes the room title
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the room stats
oshow <vnum>        - shows an object with given vnum
olist               - lists objects in this area.
mshow <vnum>        - shows a mobile with given vnum
mlist               - lists mobiles in this area.
<room-flags>        - room attributes, type ? ROOM for a list
<sector>            - terrain of room, type ? SECTOR for a list
<direction>         - see help EXIT, or type <dir> ?
~

#271
0 EXIT~
For exits, type the direction (north/s/e/w) followed by:

dig <vnum>         - creates the room and makes a two way link
link <room vnum>   - make a two way link
room <room vnum>   - make a one way link (use with caution)
key <object vnum>  - makes specified object the vnum of the key required
name <door name>   - makes the door's name/keywords = to the given name
desc               - edit the description of the exit
delete             - delete this exit
<exit-flags>       - type ? EXIT for a list(make exit door, locked etc.)

The exit flags are presented in the following manner.  The capitalized
flags are ones not included in the reset info.  i.e. closed is due to
a player closing the door and not due to the door being set to be closed.

-South to [ 3744] Key: [   -1] Exit flags: [door CLOSED bashed pickproof]
~

#272
0 OEDIT~
Syntax: edit object <vnum>	-Enters the editor for the selected object.

The following commands are available from within the OEDITOR:

addaffect           - applies an affect to an object, no args for help
delaffect           - removes an affect to an object, no args for help
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
cost <gold>         - sets the gold value of the object
create <vnum>       - creates object with specified vnum
done                - exits the object editor and returns to normal play
ed                  - type this for info on adding/editing extended descriptions
long                - edit long description (the one in the room)
name <keywords>     - sets the keywords on an object
short <desc>        - sets the 'name' of an object (a sword, a fish etc)
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the object stats
v0 <num>            - sets the value '0' on the object
v1 <num>            - sets the value '1' on the object
v2 <num>            - sets the value '2' on the object
v3 <num>            - sets the value '3' on the object
v4 <num>            - sets the value '4' on the object
weight <num>        - sets the weight of the object
type         	    - type of object, type ? TYPE for a list
extra		    - attributes of object, type ? EXTRA for a list
wear                - where object is worn, type ? WEAR for a list
material            - material the object is made from
~

#273
0 MEDIT~
Syntax: medit <vnum>	-Enters the editor for the selected mobile.

The following commands are available from within the MEDITOR:

alignment <value>   - set the mobile's alignment
commands            - prints a list of possible commands
create <vnum>       - creates mobile with specified vnum
desc                - edit the mobile's description (when looked at)
done                - exits the mobile editor and returns to normal play
level <level>       - set the mobile's level
long                - edit long description (the one in the room)
name <keywords>     - sets the keywords on an mobile
shop                - type this command for further information
short <desc>        - sets the 'name' of an mobile (a sword, a fish etc)
show                - hitting return, or 'show' shows the mobile stats
spec                - sets a mobiles spec proc, type ? SPEC for a list
sex                 - set the mobile's sex, type ? SEX for a list
act                 - mobiles actions, type ? ACT for a list
affect              - mobile affects, type ? AFFECT for a list
ac		    - set the mobile's ac, type ? AC for a list
form		    - mobiles body-form, type ? FORM for a list
part		    - mobiles bodyparts, type ? PART for a list
imm		    - mobile is immune to, type ? IMM for a list
res		    - mobile is resistant to, type ? RES for a list
vuln		    - mobile is vulnerable to, type ? VULN for a list
material	    - material mobile is made from, type ? MATERIAL for a list
off		    - offensive behavior, type ? OFF for a list
size		    - size, type ? SIZE for a list
hitdice		    - dice to toss to get mobile's hitpoints
manadice	    - dice to toss to get mobile's mana
damdice		    - dice to toss to get mobile's hand to hand damage

type 'help HITDICE', 'help MANADICE', 'help DAMDICE' 
for lists of reasonable dice combinations on different levels.
~

#274
0 HITDICE ~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles hitpoints.
Suggested values are:

       level:     dice          min         max        mean
         1:       1d2+6        7(  7)     8(   8)     8(   8)
	 2:       1d3+15      16( 15)    18(  18)    17(  17)
	 3:       1d6+24      25( 24)    30(  30)    27(  27)
	 5:      1d17+42      43( 42)    59(  59)    51(  51)
	10:      3d22+96      99( 95)   162( 162)   131( 129)
	15:      5d30+161    166(159)   311( 311)   239( 235)
        20:      7d40+225
        25:      9d55+375
	30:     10d61+416    426(419)  1026(1026)   726( 723)
        40:     10d100+610
        45:     10d125+751
	50:     10d169+920   930(923)  2610(2610)  1770(1767)

Diff = max - min.  Mean is the arithmetic mean.
The values in parenthesis are the standard merc values.
~

#275
0 MANADICE~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles mana.
The values the server generates for merc-type mobs is
  <level> d 10 + 100
where level is the level of the mobile.
~

#276
0 DAMDICE~
A high number of dice makes for less variance in mobiles hitpoints.
Suggested values are:

       Level      dice       min      min    mean
        1         1d2+0       1        2       2
        2         1d2+1       2        3       3
        3         1d3+2       3        5       4
        5         2d3+2       4        8       6
       10         2d5+5       7       15      11
       15         3d5+8      11       23      17
       20         4d5+10     14       30      22
       30         5d6+15     20       45      33
       50         5d10+25    30       75      53

Mean is the arithmetic mean.  The values in parenthesis are the
standard merc values.  (Will be put in when there's time to calculatethem)
~

#277
0 RESETS~
Syntax: RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> <location on body>    - equips last mobile
        RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> inside <obj vnum>     - store in container
        RESET <number> OBJ <vnum> room                  - store in room
        RESET <number> MOB <vnum> [<max #>]             - load a mobile
        RESET <number> DELETE                           - delete a reset

RESET alone will display the resets in the current room.  The <number> will
be displayed with this list.  Typing ? WEAR-LOC will list possible locations
that an object can be loaded to.  The [<max #>] is the maximum number of
mobiles allowed in this room and will default to 1 if no number is entered.

For resets to be successful make sure that you add them in a logical order.
For example if you are equipping a mobile don't load a container in the room
and fill it with some objects and then continue equipping the mobile.  It is
likely that resets will backfire if they are not carefully entered.

If you wish to reset the room then use EDIT ROOM RESET.  
~

#278
0 MOB_AC AC~
The values ROM generates for a merc format mob is:

   level      pierce    bash    slash   exotic
     1          95       95       95      95
     5          70       70       70      85
    10          40       40       40      70
    15           5        5        5      55
    20         -25      -25      -25      40
    25         -55      -55      -55      20
    30         -90      -90      -90       5
    35        -120     -120     -120     -10
    40        -150     -150     -150     -25
    45        -180     -180     -180     -40
    50        -215     -215     -215     -55
    55        -245     -245     -245     -70
    60        -275     -275     -275     -90
    65        -305     -305     -305    -105
    70        -340     -340     -340    -120
    80        -400     -400     -400    -150

These values are 10 times what you would put in an area file. This
is because the server multiplies what it reads from file with 10.
~

#279
0 ITEM_LIGHT~
.  value 0    unused
   value 1    unused
   value 2    hours of light available, 0 is dead, -1 or 999 is infinite
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused
~

#280
0 ITEM_STAFF_WAND~
.  value 0    level
   value 1    max charges
   value 2    current charges
   value 3    spell name
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of spells can be obtained by typing:
? SPELLS [ignore/attack/defend/self/object/all]
~

#281
0 ITEM_SCROLL_POTION_PILL~
.  value 0    level
   value 1    spell name 1
   value 2    spell name 2
   value 3    spell name 3
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of spells can be obtained by typing:
? SPELLS [ignore/attack/defend/self/object/all]
~

#282
0 ITEM_ARMOR~
.  value 0    ac pierce
   value 1    ac bash
   value 2    ac slash
   value 3    ac exotic (magic)
   value 4    unused
~

#283
0 ITEM_WEAPON~
.  value 0    weapon class.
   value 1    number of dice to roll.
   value 2    type of dice to roll.
   value 3    weapon type.
   value 4    special weapon type.

An up-to-date list of values can be obtained by typing
? WCLASS

See also:
     HELP WEAPON_DICE
     ? WEAPON
     ? WTYPE
~

#284
0 ITEM_RANGED~
.  value 0    Type of ammo (? AMMO)
   value 1    Weight capacity of weapon.
   value 2    Number of shots per combat round.
   value 3    VNUM of object required as specific ammunition.
   value 4    special flags.
~

#285
0 ITEM_PROJECTILE~
.  value 0    Type of ammo. (? AMMO)
   value 1    Type of dice.
   value 2    Number of dice.
   value 3    Damage noun.
   value 4    Special Type (? PROJTYPE)
~

#286
0 WEAPON_DICE~
These are the values the server generates automatically when
converting a merc-format mobile to ROM format.  A higher
number of dice gives less variance in damage.  There is no
dice-bonus on weapon dice.

      level:   dice 
        1:     1d8
        2:     2d5
        3:     2d5
        5:     2d6
       10:     4d5
       20:     5d5
       30:     5d7
       50:     5d11
~

#287
0 ITEM_CONTAINER~
.  value 0    weight capacity
   value 1    flags: closeable, pickproof, closed, locked 
   value 2    key vnum
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of flags can be obtained by typing

? CONTAINTER
~

#288
0 ITEM_DRINK~
.  value0    capacity
   value 1    current quantity
   value 2    liquid type
   value 3    poisoned?
   value 4    unused

An up-to-date list of liquid types can be obtained by typing

? LIQUID
~

#289
0 ITEM_FOOD~
.  value 0    hours of food value
   value 1    unused
   value 2    unused
   value 3    poisoned?
   value 4    unused
~

#290
0 ITEM_MONEY~
.  value 0    value in gold pieces
   value 1    unused
   value 2    unused
   value 3    unused
   value 4    unused
~

#291
-1 CHAMELEON~
CHAMELEON

Syntax: chameleon

  Members of the slith race, due to their lizard heritage have a particular
ability to control the pigment of their outer skin and with great effort
perfectly camouflage themselfs in any spot much like a chameleon.  Due to the
fact that any slight movement tends to destroy the illusion and it requires
immense concentration on the part of the slith, this ability is oft used as a
last resort.

See also: KEEN SIGHT
~

#292
-1 'RAGE FOCUS'~
RAGE FOCUS

  As the berserker rises in power and begins to focus upon his chosen path, they
gain an additional ability reflected by their choices from path focus.

        path focus  	        rage focus
	anger			skull crusher
	fury			powergrip
	devastation		bloodhaze

You may gain further help for each skill.

See also: SELECT
~

#293
-2 berserker~ 'SKULL CRUSHER'~
SKULL CRUSHER

Syntax:	automatic	(when haymaker is used)

  Using their skills of focus, the followers of path of anger begin to strike so
quickly and accurately that their haymakers totally ignore any shields their
opponents may be wearing sending their victim's standing spells and teeth flying
in shambles.  

See also: HAYMAKER, RAGE FOCUS
~

#294
-2 berserker~ 'BLOODHAZE'~
BLOODHAZE

Syntax:	automatic

  Submerged in murky depths of insanity with a red veil over their eyes, 
the followers of the path of devastation will occasionally ignore blows and
spells that would fry a lesser man to cinders, or hew him apart.  Instead
these madman only roar in pain and continue on their unstoppable rampage
of insanity.

See also: RAGE FOCUS
~

#295
-1 'PATH FOCUS'~
PATH FOCUS

  As the berserker comes to power in his or her guild, they are required to
choose a path of focus for their deadly arts of rage and further hone their
anger towards a certain style.  Three paths are available, and unless chosen,
the berserker will remain only capable of producing the bland, unfocused
rage he has used since his birth.  The following paths are possible:

	path of anger
	path of fury
	path of devastation

You may gain further help for each skill.

See also: SELECT, RAGE, RELAX
~

#296
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF ANGER'~
PATH OF ANGER

Syntax:	automatic

  Those of the berserker guild whom prefer to control the deadly tide within
their mind choose this path to further learn and practice various techniques
for relaxation and mental focus.  They become capable of always relaxing
out of their raged state even while in combat, and take far less time for
this task then others of their guild.  Later in their career their mental
training and perseverance pays off as they glean advanced techniques of using
haymaker to their advantage.

  Since the members of the path of anger always strive to control their anger,
their rage is generally weaker.

See also: PATH FOCUS,  RAGE FOCUS
~

#297
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF FURY'~
PATH OF FURY

Syntax:	automatic

  Riding the edge between deadly tide of madness and weaker state of anger,
those whom choose moderation and balance.  Their rage is more powerful then
normal, and significantly stronger then one preferred by followers of path of
anger.  Yet they may not relax in combat, even if their stronger anger does
lend itself to handling two handed weapons.  Followers of this path are 
capable of more effective weapon block, as they channel their rage and fury
into their grasp on the weapon.  Late in their career they further improve
this ability and glean secrets of powergrip.

  Using their anger in moderation, the followers of this path tend to rage
to a state more powerful then unfocused rage, but no where near the state
followers of path of devastation enter.

See also: PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#298
-2 berserker~ 'PATH OF DEVASTATION'~
PATH OF DEVASTATION

Syntax:	automatic

  The followers of this path (if they can be called that) are often little
more then madman whom bring their minds into the darkest pits of fury and
pain to achieve a state of temporary insanity.  The blows they strike are
capable of crumbling hardened steel and they seem to ignore even most
grievous wounds.  Late in their careers these furious madman begin to 
occasionally ignore wounds that would cause a lesser man to fall mindless with
pain.  Needless to say skills of relaxation are useless to those whom
prefer this path.

See also: PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#299
-1 'SOUL TRANSFER'~
SOUL TRANSFER

Syntax: cast 'soul transfer' <obj>

  After centuries of using their malformed weapons the guild of Dark Knights
devised this spell to allow transference of power from a malformed weapon
into yet untouched one.  When cast upon an object the spell will form an
unholy channel from a held malformed weapon, and transfer the souls trapped
by the vile device into the targeted weapon.  Thus the new weapon shall
receive the malformed spirit, and contain all the powers, and abilities of its
previous host, albeit at cost to its power as the transfer is not perfect.

See also: MALFORM WEAPON
~

#300
-1 'WARRIOR LORE'~
WARRIOR LORE

  A group of skills developed by various warriors and over time passed
onto the guild in order for others of this profession to benefit.
Only a single choice dependant on your weapon mastery maybe be made.

      mastery				allows
	ANY			shield expertise, shield bash
	dagger, sword		feign, doublesheath
	spear			backcutter
	staff			backcutter, powergrip
	flail			mantis maul
	mace			focused bash
	exotic, whip		weapon lock, weapon seize
	axe, polearm		powergrip

You may get further help on each of these skills.

See also: HELP SELECT
~

#301
-2 warrior~ 'BACK CUTTER' BACKCUTTER~
BACKCUTTER

Syntax: automatic

  This particular technique was originally developed by members of the Warrior
guild whom have held mastery of the nimble and quick staffs.  As their victims
would turn to flee the battle, the warrior would use their primary weapon to 
land a quick blow upon their open back causing great damage.  The skill was soon 
adapted by others but to this day only those holding mastery of spear or staff 
may learn it.

See also: Age of MirlanEE, WARRIOR LORE
~

#302
-2 warrior~ 'SHIELD EXPERTISE'~
SHIELD EXPERTISE

Syntax:	automatic

 Much like ability to focus on use of a particular weapon type, the warrior
guild may guide their members to further their skills in arts of shield use
beyond that of common warriors.  This dedication allows the skilled warrior to
surpass common men in skill of shield block.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, SHIELD BLOCK
~

#303
-2 warrior~ 'POWER GRIP' POWERGRIP~
POWER GRIP

Syntax: automatic

  After dedicating years of their life to massive, long hefted weapons 
such as axes and polearms, some warriors develop such powerful grasp when 
using these weapons, that their double grip skill is greatly enhanced.  
Furthermore, if someone does manage to disarm them while they wield such 
weapons, they will manage to still hang on to it partially and drop it 
into their inventory rather then the ground.  The only exception to this 
is the skill of weapon seize when used with exotic weapons.  Curiously 
enough, those warriors whom hold mastery of the nimble and light staffs
have also been known to learn this skill.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, WEAPON SEIZE, DISARM, DOUBLE GRIP
~

#304
-2 berserker~ 'POWER GRIP' POWERGRIP~
POWER GRIP

Syntax: automatic

  After dedicating years of their life to massive, long hefted weapons 
such as axes and polearms, some warriors develop such powerful grasp when 
using these weapons, that their double grip skill is greatly enhanced.  
Furthermore, if someone does manage to disarm them while they wield such 
weapons, they will manage to still hang on to it partially and drop it 
into their inventory rather then the ground.  The only exception to this 
is the skill of weapon seize when used with exotic weapons.  Curiously 
enough, those warriors whom hold mastery of the nimble and light staffs
have also been known to learn this skill.

See also: RAGE FOCUS
~

#305
-2 warrior~ 'WEAPON SEIZE'~
WEAPON SEIZE

Syntax:	automatic

  Warriors whom have mastered the use of less common weapons such as
exotics or whips automatically use this technique when disarming an opponent.
On success the opponent's weapon is whisked out of their grasp, and instead
of falling upon the ground, or to their inventory it is seized by the warrior.
Warriors whom have mastered the use of exotic weapons, have such finesse with
these strange weapons, that even weapons which normally cannot be dropped will
be seized when disarmed.

See also: WARRIOR LORE, DISARM, OFFHAND DISARM
~

#306
-2 warrior~ 'SHIELD BASH'~
SHIELD BASH

Syntax: shieldbash

  Often liked by warriors more used to a shield then secondary weapon, the
skill allows the user to charge at the enemy, and use their shield to bash
them with great force.  Unlike bash or bodyslam however the object is to
cause damage with sheer kinetic force, and such shield bash often results
in crushed wrists, arms and weapons flung out of their owner's grasp.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#307
-2 warrior~ 'FOCUSED BASH'~
FOCUSED BASH

Syntax: focusedbash
	focusedbash <target>

  Warriors who have dedicated their training to the mastery of the mace may
attempt to land a potent blow aimed at the helm or head of their victims.
When landed with a great enough force, and aimed correctly this blow will
stun and confuse the target, hampering his sense of movement and direction.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#308
-2 warrior~ 'MANTIS MAUL'~
MANTIS MAUL

Syntax:	maul 
	maul <target>

  Those warriors whom have spent their life mastering intricacies of using
flails have developed a way to use the difficulty of blocking those weapons
to their advantage.  Using a flail the warrior begins to land a multitude 
of weak blows all about the opponent, concentrating on such vulnerable spots
as face, head and joints.  The final effect of a successful attempt is not
only grievous damage, but often the victim will be overcome by the pain and
the staggering blows will stun or paralyze them for a short while.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#309
-2 warrior~ FEIGN~
FEIGN

Syntax:	feign

  Those of the warrior guild whom have long focused on use of nimble weapons
such as swords and daggers have developed this skill to further gain advantage
over their untrained foes.  When armed with two weapons, the warrior will feign
an attack with his secondary weapon, creating a diversion that when successful
hampers the victim's defenses against the warrior's primary attacks.  Hence
for the round following the feign the warrior's aim and penetration with the
primary attacks will be greatly boosted resulting in guaranteed hits at the 
cost of one of the secondary attacks.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#310
-2 warrior~ 'WEAPON LOCK' WEAPONLOCK~
WEAPON LOCK

Syntax:	weaponlock

  Those warriors who tend to focus on more exotic weapons are capable of
using their unusual abilities to deflect, lock, or otherwise disable their 
opponents weaker arm carrying secondary weapons, or shields.  When successfully
used the opponent's secondary arm becomes useless forfeiting any attacks, 
hampering ability to flee and negating following defenses: dual parry, second 
parry, shield block, weapon block.

See also: WARRIOR LORE
~

#311
-1 MERCY~
MERCY

Syntax:	mercy

Those with such mastery of control over their strength may show mercy to their
opponents by staying their deathblows.

See also: WEAPON MASTERY
~

#312
-2 thief~ 'BASIC TRAPS'~
BASIC TRAPS

Alarm

  A simple alarm trap, it has no function beyond being an alarm. It is simple, 
difficult to disarm, and gives off no indication of being tripped.

Simple
  A simple spring and rope trap designed to spring and smash the victim with
a blunt object of thieve's choice.  Its is crude, and hence always visible
and a toddler can disarm it with ease.

See also: THIEF TRAPS
~

#313
-2 thief~ 'POISON NEEDLE'~
POISON NEEDLE

  There are those who believe that in simplicity lies beauty, and whoever
designed this trap seemed to have believed that phrase.  The trap is very small
often composed of single tiny needle coated with deadly poison, or in more
complicated versions of a spring launched dart contained in tiny vial of 
poison.  Both kinds are made to be fitted onto objects.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#314
-2 thief~ 'ENFEEBLER'~
ENFEEBLER

A devious trap composed of magical spells and mechanical triggers. When setup
the maker may link its function with himself, thus being able to know when
it is activated.  When this occurs the trap creates a field of magical force
that drains the victim's stamina and passes it onto the owner of the trap.
It cannot be dodged, but it is magical in nature.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#315
-2 thief~ 'FIRESEED'~
FIRESEED

A deadly and potent trap created by compressing various compositions of
brimstone, sulphur and then bound with magical enhancements.  It is extremely
small and compact, mounted on objects and all but impossible to disarm.  
When sprung it explodes with fiery fury often turning the victims to ashes.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#316
-2 thief~ 'SNARES'~
SNARES

  This collection of traps includes mechanical traps that are meant to
cause great deal of damage the old fashioned way.  Their design is not
subtle and they tend to be easily spotted, but rather hard to disarm without
getting hurt.

Jagged Snare
  Composed of wrought iron, often with large rusty teeth and a thick chain.  
Perfect for catching bears, ogres, humans and other such prey.

Silver Snare
  Made from a net of silver strands with barbed, jagged edges.  When sprung
the nets rise forth slicing and shredding the victim.  Excellent where
keeping the victim's looks in good condition is not a priority.

Bramble Snare
  The snare of choice in woods and forests, its wooden composition and thorny
jaws are hard to spot in such terrain.  When sprung the thorns are easy capable
or piercing steel and even enchanted armor.

See also: BOOBY TRAPS
~

#317
-2 thief~ RUNES~
RUNES

  Runes are traps made not of wood or metal but of spells woven and cast into
runes that may be attached or drawn upon any surface.  Often placed on doors
or paths they are almost exclusively damage orientated and always magical.

Blue Rune
  Forged with powers of cold and ice, the rune is perfect for catching supper
in early morning, or to shatter frozen limbs of those who trespass on your 
tower.

White Rune
  Stolen in years long gone, this rune's origin has been a source of ongoing
conflict between the Thief and Cleric guild.  When sprung it uses a self
contained prayer coupled with magical boosters to blast the victim with
forces of holy sermons.

Green Rune
  First used as a prank by one of the students on their duergar Guild Master,
this rune uses a self contained spell to instantaneously and temporarily change
its proximity into water, and hurl it at the victim with surprising force.
Ingenious in its ability to wash away the blood and gore of its victim, its
a favorite of the Darhemish thieves.
~

#318
-1 'BOOBY TRAPS'~
BOOBY TRAPS

  A collection of various devices meant to surprise and hurt or maim the
victim, from which two kinds may be selected by an aspiring thief. The
choices are:
	Poison Needle
	Enfeebler
	Fireseed
	Snares
	Runes

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#319
-2 thief~ EYEDUST EYEDUSTER~
EYEDUSTER

  Composed of a small packet of rare salts from beyond Fen Marshes then
hidden with spells, this trap when sprung hurls the caustic salts
and then guides them with spells right under the victim's eyelids. Masks,
helms, veil, and even gnome goggles are useless as defense against the
enchanted powders.  The unfortunate victim of this fairly difficult
to disarm trap may be left sightless for hours at end. As an added bonus 
the enchantments used on salts notify the creator when this trap is sprung
or defused.

See also MAGIC TRAPS
~

#320
-2 thief~ ANTIMAGIC~
ANTIMAGIC

 A trap as ancient as the oldest magics of the Mirlan, it was developed
just as the guild of Mages was established.  Composed of a scroll of antimagic,
and a small spell to magically recite it this trap when sprung attempts to dispel
any enchantments present on its victim.  Since the spell is incased by the
trap's magic mouth spell, it cannot be dodged.  Like all other traps in the
Magical Trap category, it will notify the user when sprung or defused.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#321
-2 thief~ 'AMNESIA CHARM'~
AMNESIA CHARM

This trap uses a set of powerful  magical spells to befuddle and confuse its
victim's memories.  As an added improvement it also attempts to isolate the
person from any of their friends or followers leaving the victim at the mercy
of the thief.  Small compact and able to be layered onto nearly anything it is
vocal in nature and cannot be dodged.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#322
-2 thief~ 'BLACKSPORE'~
BLACKSPORE

Common blackspore is a near invisible spore of an extremely rare fungus. While
it is occasionally found in dark, evil forests devoid of sunlight, it is almost
always present near shores of Darhelm, and harvested by daring thieves or
healers who dedicate their lives to destroying this vile fungus.

See also: MAGIC TRAPS
~

#323
-1 'MAGIC TRAPS'~
MAGICAL TRAPS

 A collection of traps are not only magical in nature, but more importantly
use powerful enchantments and spells to achieve their use.  An aspiring 
thief may select two of these devices out of the following list:
	Eyedust
	Antimagic
	Amnesia Charm
	Blackspore

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#324
-2 thief~ CHESTBUSTER~
CHESTBUSTER

This trap is a marvelous blend of magical and mechanical components.  Fused
into a tiny metallic container filled with shredded old armor is a miniature
spell of air pocket.  The round container itself is either set with spell of
invisibility when placed on small or large objects, or with spell of flight
when set on exits.  When tripped the container flies forth towards its victim,
guided by its magic to penetrate deep into the flesh near lungs or stomach.
Then the spell of air pocket activates not only hopefully exploding the
victim's chest but also riddling the poor sod and anyone in close vicinity with
splendid fountain of blood, gore and the metal junk within the container.

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#325
-2 thief~ 'NEEDLER'~
THE NEEDLER

The Needler is a self-aiming guard trap. 

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#326
-2 thief~ 'WEBCASTER'~
WEBCASTER

  The Webcaster is a means to Stun and Capture!

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#327
-2 thief~ 'DEVIL WHEEL'~
DEVIL WHEEL

Designed by a Master Assassin this contraption is composed of a hundred or more
tiny parts dispersed around the area and all but invisible to an untrained eye.
When triggered, these tiny grain sized parts seem to come together as if by
magic and form what appears to be a giant pentagram about the victim.

The mechanism seems to do nothing now except that leaving its effect a mystery.

See also: MECHANISMS
~

#328
-1 MECHANISMS~
MECHANISMS

The most complex of traps, often requiring hours to complete are contained
within this group.  Their effects are often unique and deadly, and they
last far longer then any other traps.  Only one may be selected by a thief
and their secrets are guarded with a deadly veil mystery.
	Chestbuster
	The Needler
	Webcaster
	Devil Wheel

You may get further help on each of the above with "help" command.

See also: SELECT, THIEF TRAPS, TRAPS
~

#329
-1 'THIEF TRAPS'~
THIEF TRAPS

Syntax:	trap <trap> <object>	: Sets the given trap on an object.
	trap <trap> <exit>	: Sets the given trap on an exit/door.

The skill of a thief in this particular discipline allows its user to construct
and set various little ingenious devices aimed usually towards maiming,
killing, or otherwise disabling whoever happens to set the device off.

While the specific selection of traps to use varies due to specialization 
for thieves, each trap has some common general properties such as its duration,
and if it can be set upon [E]xits/doors, [O]bjects, or [S]mall objects.  Traps
set on Exits are tripped when the door is opened, or someone steps through the
exit.

Those set on objects are tripped when the object is picked up, or used in anyway
(opening a chest for example).  Only traps designed to be Small, can be set up
onto objects that may be picked up.

Traps respect PK range and cannot be seen, defused, or tipped by those whom the
thief cannot harm.  Most traps are destroyed when tripped or defused but will
exist until their duration expires or their owner leaves the lands.

A thief may at any time have maximum of two active traps.  If a third tap is 
made the oldest trap in existence will decay.

See also: TRAPS, BASIC TRAPS, DEFUSE, DETECT HIDDEN, PK
~

#330
-1 PLANT~
PLANT

Syntax:	
plant <item>		: Attempts to plant or swap an item.
plant <item> sec	: Attempts to plant item into its secondary spot.
plant <item> <for item> : Swaps an item for the second item.

A rather devious, albeit limited ability, the plant skill allows a thief to
directly trade or plant items on their victim's body.

If two objects are specified then an attempt is made to trade them for each
other without the victim even noticing.  If only one object is specified an
attempt is made to put it on the victim's body.

When an object is being swapped, the difference in their weights has large
bearing on the chance of success.  If the weights are close enough, it is
almost impossible to fail, hence skilled thieves often leave their victims
in rags, rather naked while they walk away loaded with loot.

See also: PRY, APPROACH
~

#331
-1 APPROACH~
APPROACH

Syntax: approach <victim>  : Approaches the future donor of goods.

In order for a thief to pry or plant items from their chosen donor's selection,
they must approach their victim first.  Then they may proceed to pry or plant
items, with each attempt contributing to bringing the victim closer to the
waking world.  The rank of the thief has a large bearing on how 'deft' their
touch is, hence a master thief may afford himself more failures or steal more
items then his lower ranked counterpart without undue notice.

See also: PRY, PLANT
~

#332
-1 PRY~
PRY

Syntax: pry <weight> <object>	: Pry the object while guessing its weight.
Weight: weightless		: Object weights nothing or next to nothing.
	light			: A light object, even a faerie can lift it.
	medium			: A weight of an average human weapon or armor.
	heavy			: Very heavy, examples include platinum or red
                                  dragon armors.

The second defining skill of a thief is the ability to pry which allows a
skilled thief to literally steal the shirt from their victim's back.  In order
to attempt this risky procedure, the thief must approach its victim first.
Once in near proximity of it victim, the thief may pry items off the person's
body by first judging the weight as to apply the proper amount of force and
finesse.

The <weight> is one's judgement of how heavy the item is, while <object> is the
item in question.  The thief then begins the careful maneuver of attempting to
remove the item and put it in their inventory where it belongs.  A guess not
close enough to the true weight of the object will hamper the chances to the
point of failure, while giving considerable bonus for close guesses.

See also: APPROACH, PLANT
~

#333
-1 DOUBLESHEATH 'DOUBLE SHEATH'~
DOUBLESHEATH

Syntax:	sheath <obj>	: Double sheathes.
	sheath <obj> sec: Double sheathes to secondary sheath.

Some professions are trained in storing secondary weapons on their bodies,
either in regular sheathes or other compartments.  Those skilled in
doublesheath may thus place a weapon aside while they hold another weapon in
their hands.  This sheathed weapon will be drawn forth automatically if the
corresponding wielded weapon is lost, regardless of circumstance.

Doublesheathed weapons may also be switched or rotated on command with the 
'draw' command.

NOTE:  A thief well versed in skill of throwing can hide their daggers in one of
the sheaths, and automatically throw them when about to murder their victim or
when their mark flees from battle.

See also: SHEATH, RANGER LORE, WARRIOR LORE, THROW
~

#334
-2 ranger~ 'RANGER LORE'~
RANGER LORE

A group of skills developed by rangers over time and passed onto the guild in
order for others of this profession to benefit.  Only a single choice maybe be
made out of the following four skills.  They are as follows.

Fletchery
Bowyer
Archery
Beastmaster
Doublesheath

You may get further help on each of these skills.

See also: SELECT
~

#335
-2 ranger~ BEASTMASTER~
BEASTMASTER

Syntax: automatic

Some rangers after spending years in forests and wilderness develop a special
kinship with those whom call it home.  Able to harness the trust and loyalty
of animals whom for so long they have respected and protected, these beast
masters find it easier to call on beasts of the wild, and tend to summon more
powerful allies.

See also: BEAST CALL, RANGER LORE, ORDER COMMAND
~

#336
-2 ranger~ FLETCHERY~
FLETCHERY

Syntax:	fletchery <projectile type>

Rangers required reliable means of replenishing their arrows; this skill was
quickly extended and improved by others to include every type of projectile
known to mortals.  A skilled user of this skill may easily create specific type
of projectiles to be used with his ranged weapons.

See also: FIRED WEAPONS, RANGER LORE
~

#337
-2 ranger~ ARCHERY~
ARCHERY

Syntax: automatic

Once adopted by rangers the principles of archery allow for rapid reloading,
greater accuracy and ability to fire while blinded.  Rangers with this skill
will automatically reload their weapons and fire with increased accuracy even
when unable to fully see their opponent.

See also: FIRED WEAPON, RANGER LORE
~

#338
-2 ranger~ BOWYER~
BOWYER

Syntax: stringbow <ammo type>
 
Similar to the fletcher skill, a bowyer is able to construct ranged weapons
from basic materials available about them.  The bowyer can construct the weapon
to fire specific projectile type though the weapons are restricted to use by
rangers only.

See also: FIRED WEAPONS, RANGER LORE
~

#339
-1 'WEAPON EXPERTISE' 'SWORD EXPERTISE' 'DAGGER EXPERTISE' 'EXOTIC EXPERTISE' 
'SPEAR EXPERTISE' 'MACE EXPERTISE' 'AXE EXPERTISE' 'FLAIL EXPERTISE' 'WHIP 
EXPERTISE' 'STAFF EXPERTISE' 'POLEARM EXPERTISE'~
WEAPON EXPERTISE

A select few classes are so focused and dependant on their use of weapons that
over years of use of particular type they develop a sense of understanding of
its use above what other classes are capable of.  Armed with such expertise in
the weapon class, they may progress beyond normal proficiency of other classes
in that particular weapon.

See also: WEAPON MASTERY, WEAPON, SELECT
~

#340
-1 'WEAPON MASTERY' 'EXOTIC MASTERY' 'SWORD MASTERY' 'DAGGER MASTERY' 'SPEAR 
MASTERY' 'MACE MASTERY' 'AXE MASTERY' 'FLAIL MASTERY' 'WHIP MASTERY' 'STAFF 
MASTERY' 'POLEARM MASTERY'~
WEAPON MASTERY

 There are those in the guild of warriors whom have spent all their life
training with the use of a single selected weapon type.  After years of use and 
devotion they begin to develop an inner feel for the weapon's fighting style
resulting in such skill and understanding of its technique that their
proficiency with it may rise far above normal.

See also: WEAPON EXPERTISE, WEAPON, SELECT
~

#341
-1 UNLOAD~
UNLOAD

Syntax:	unload
	unload <weapon>

To unload an equipped (worn) ranged weapon use the command 'unload'.  To unload
a particular weapon specify it with the unload command.  When unloading you
will always unload all the projectiles out of the weapon to your inventory.

See also: RELOAD, SHOOT, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#342
-1 RELOAD~
RELOAD

Syntax:	reload
	reload <projectile>

An equipped (worn) ranged weapon, may be reloaded with the 'reload' command.
When used alone, you will attempt to reload your weapon with the first
available projectile, if you specify an object ('reload bolt') you will
attempt to load a weapon with those projectiles.  It does take time to
reload a weapon and that you will always attempt to load a weapon to its full
capacity.  There are special kinds of weapons especially made to be quickly
reloaded right after they have been fired, resulting in automatic reload that
takes no time beyond firing.

See also: UNLOAD, SHOOT, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#343
-1 SHOOT~
SHOOT

Syntax: shoot
	shoot <target>

  An equipped (worn) ranged weapon may be fired with the 'shoot' command at a
target or if none specified at whomever you are fighting at the moment.  When
weapon fires, it will discharge a set amount of its projectiles out of its
supply, both of which are defined by the weapon itself.  Hence a short bow may
fire a single arrow once before reload, while the dwarven stone caster may fire
five rocks, with supply of twenty before it needs to be reloaded.

See also: RELOAD, UNLOAD, FIRED WEAPONS
~

#344
51 'FIRED WEAPONS'~
Below are what most non-exotic ranged weapons would compare like.  In order to
have some kind of order and conformity, please abide by this table when creating
ranged weapons, using it directly or for comparison when making other types of
ranged weapons.

 NAME			HITROLL DAMROLL CAPACITY SHOTS * OTHER
 simple bow		  -3	  -4	   2	  1
 short bow		  -2	  -3	   2      1
 normal bow		  -2	  -2	   2	  2
 long bow		  -1	  -2	   2      2	fast
 composite bow		  +1	  -1	   4      2     fast
 great bow		  +2	  +2	   4      2     fast
 light crossbow		  -2	  -1	   1	  1
 crossbow		  -1	   0	   1	  1
 medium crossbow	  +1	  +2	   2	  1
 heavy crossbow		  +2	  +3	   2      1
 arbalest		  +3	  +4	   4      1
 springbow		  +3	  +3	   8      2

BOWS:	   
Small capacity generally two per shot and fast. Better on average.

MECHANICAL:
Large capacity, multiple shots and NEVER fast. Better for bursts.
~

#345
-1 'FIRED WEAPONS'~
FIRED WEAPONS

Some classes choose to focus and excel in use of ranged weapons such as bows,
crossbows, and other kinds of ranged weapons.  While almost anyone in the lands
is capable of using such things, only those specially trained have the skills
necessary to quickly aim, reload and fire such weapons effectively in heat of
combat.

THE THEORY
When a projectile is fired, in general the chance for it to hit the target is
in large part dependant on the skill of the user, and the quality of the
launcher (bow, crossbow etc) being used expressed in its hitroll, with the
hitroll of the projectile playing a smaller part.

The damage caused by the hitting projectile is dependant on its average damage
and damage dice, and is greatly enhanced by any kind of damage roll bonuses on
the launcher.

Finally, the ability to use the launcher properly is very much affected by its
rank compared to your characters, at times severely limiting your ability to
use fired weapons which are lot higher in rank then you.

Hence in general, the hitting ability is very dependant on the launcher and
skill, while the damage is dependant on both the projectile and the launcher.

THE PROPERTIES

Every ranged weapon has number of properties a marksman should be aware off. 

- Ammunition:   The ammunition type the weapon supports can be general
		(arrows, bolts, arrows AND bolts etc.) or a specific
		item that is required for it to function (fire gems).

- Capacity:	How many projectiles can the weapon be reloaded with
		at a time.  This can range from one to as many as twenty.

- Shots/Round:	This specifies how many projectiles are discharged per
		use of the weapon with 'shoot' command.  The fired 
		projectiles are taken out of the 'capacity' number until
		none are left.  Note that non-limited projectiles are
		"used up" on firing, while rare or unique can be collected
		after firing.

- Other:	Some weapons have other properties that grant them particular
		powers or uses.

See also: RELOAD, UNLOAD, SHOOT
~

#346
-1 ORC ORCS~
ORC ORCS

Orcs, probably the most prolific race aside from humans in Mirlan.  They out
number even the goblins.  Orcs are extremely competitive and will fight even
amongst themselves most of the time without provocation, rhyme or reason unless
they are lead by a very strong leader.

Orcs are difficult to control in the sense that they tend to do what they want,
when they want to.  This is only the norm for orc societies.  Orcs are very
adept at adapting.  They have a natural ability to adapt to nearly any
environment or situation.  While they are social creatures they tend to only be
so within their own race and often consider the half-orcs to be acceptable.
They do not usually discriminate in who they consider enemies.  Usually, if you
are not within their tribe, you are an enemy.  

Orcs are powerful.  With their large size they tend to dominate many of the
weaker races when they can.  They do prefer to roam the night as the day but
are equally capable of either.  

Orcs love the spear.  It is one of their preferred weapons.  They also, due to
their continual fighting and desire to compete have learned a few skills that
help them dominate.  Bashing and body slamming are some of their favorite
tactics but make no mistake, they are not limited to these forms.  They just
excel at them.  So good at wielding spears, they have learned to use their
natural skills and thick hides to help protect them from the same kinds of
attacks.

Orcs are generally considered very ugly by other racial standards.  They tend
to have a piggish face and odd skin tones.  Their skins lean from
brownish-green with a bluish sheen to deep burnt umber.  They have hard,
course, bristly and thin hair.  They have tusks that jut out from their lower
jaws a little more prominent.  Much like a wild boar.  

Culturally they like the sickening colors such as blood red, rusty brown,
mustard yellow, moss green, et cetera.  However, they do love ornate items
like decorative shields and weapons to slay with.  Usually the more ornate,
the more gaudy.  An orc believes that you can never over decorate in this way.  

Orcs that are adventurers do not conform to all the racial mentalities.  They
are generally way above the racial norm or, have escaped the tribal life
because they were too far below the norm and found themselves in serious dire
straights with facing death and or enslavement.

Orcs are about average in intelligence but are not overtly wise either.  They
do have good constitutions and their strength is nothing to make fun of.  Orcs
can see in the dark as well as an elf, their mortal enemies.

You never see an orc magi or mage.  They do not have the ability to grasp these
concepts.

ORCS CAN BE:
WARRIORS BERSERKERS HEALERS
~

#347
-1 'LOTUS SCOURGE'~
LOTUS SCOURGE

Syntax: automatic

The secrets of creating the most powerful poisons and toxins have all been used
in creating this deadly substance.  The user possessing this knowledge is
capable of crafting poisons that are extremely potent.

See also: POISON, POISON SMOKE, ENVENOM
~

#348
-1 TROLL TROLLS~
TROLL TROLLS

Trolls, some of the most vile and evil creatures to walk Mirlan.  Without care
or concern they devastate without discrimination.  Trolls can be found in
almost any climb or climate except for extreme colds.  

These demi-humans are a subrace of giants as well.  Long, long ago they shared
a common bloodline but somewhere in the reaches of antiquity their vileness
twisted them in barely humanoid forms.  Bandy legs, taught skin, and claws
these creatures wreck havoc all over the lands.  

Highly resistant to some forms of attack they really have only one true
weakness.  Fire.  Trolls hate fire.  

Their extreme constitutions and metabolism lends them the ability to regenerate
naturally at high rates.  These creatures are not very smart or wise except in
cunning ways which has led to more than one persons demise for underestimating
their guile and tenacity.

Trolls tend to have mossy or molted green hides to putrid gray.  Their hair is
more of a greenish black to dull gray.  They have dead black eyes and can see
their prey well in the deep of the night.  

They have very good senses of smell and oft times this is what gives a hiding
opponent away to their overly sensitive keen smelling abilities.  Trolls are
not afraid of anything or anyone in general.

Not much is really known about the troll societies except that generally they
prefer to travel alone or with one or two others of their kind.  For the most
part they are solitary beasts.  They have claws as opposed to fingers and toes
which are very sharp and dangerous when used in combat.

TROLLS CAN BE:
WARRIORS BERSERKERS
~

#349
-1 PUGIL~
This advanced form of staff fighting quickly spread into the ranger guild. A
user of this skill is capable of holding a staff in such way as to quickly make
blindingly fast attacks with both ends.  Hence while holding a staff with two
hands, a user of pugil will use the staff as a primary and dual wielded weapon
at the same time, though at a slight cost to the number of attacks. 

see also: DUAL WIELD
~

#350
-1 'PSIONIC CONTROL'~
PSIONIC CONTROL

Syntax: cast 'psionic control' <element>

Using their methods of concentration the psion can focus the powers of psionic
blast unto a single class of elemental power.  Once cast, psionic control will
cause most of the psionic blast constructs to be created from that elemental
even though the ones controlled into chosen element tend to be slightly weaker
then those naturally created.  

See also: PSIONIC BLAST
~

#351
-3 undead~ LIFEDRAIN 'LIFE DRAIN'~
LIFEDRAIN

Syntax: lifedrain <victim>
	lifedrain

The undying to whom food and water are useless, feed upon the living to
maintain their existence upon the Prime Material plane.  Shambling towards
their victims the dead leech life and vitality with their touch transferring
it to themselves to stave off their never ending hunger.  The vile touch of an
undead while only a mere feeding tool at first, grows in power with the rising
rank of the undead.  It soon gains capability to leech the life and mana from
its victim, then begins to negate vitality and finally may even paralyze its
target.  

See also: UNDEAD 
~

#352
-1 UNDEAD~
UNDEAD

The undead are really not a race of and in themselves.  Undead are created by
other undead or the dread lords of strife as a reward for their evilness.  A
person does not start out as an undead but more to the point they aspire to
join the ranks of the undead for the powers conveyed upon such a
transformation.  

There are many forms of undead but all generally conform to the same general
traits.  Holy word is poison to them.  It can send them running.  Items of good
and relics of good are the bane of the undead as well. With these apparent
weaknesses it makes one wonder why indeed one would aspire to join the ranks
of the walking dead.

The undead are virtually immune to many forms of attacks such as disease and
poison.  As they are already dead they do not sustain much harm from these
forms of attack.

They are powerful though in their own right and in their own way the undead are
much to be feared.  

While the undead are a prolific problem, not much is really understood about them
as when one gets to close, they usually are in no place to ask questions of them.

UNDEAD CAN BE:
SHAMANS NECROMANCERS
~

#353
-1 GAEMINA~
Gaemina is a primal god.  One of the original three.  She is the mother off all
Mirlan.  Her sphere is Nature, Life and Being.  While she does not usually have
many followers those that are her followers are generally of the Druid, Ranger
or Lycan's.  Those that do worship her never commune with her directly by more
so through the power of Mirlan.  
~

#354
-1 RESURRECTION RESURRECT~
RESURRECTION RESURRECT

syntax: commune 'resurrection' <corpse>

The single most powerful healing prayer known, it was gifted to Healers
of the land, by immortal Palison, in rewards for their service against
forces of Morgorin.  When cast upon remains, the spell has ability to 
bring back the spirit, reversing all effects of death from the recipient.

Experience lost in the limbo of unlife, along with health and constitution
is returned, as the ghost of the victim is breathed back into the corpse.

While successful resurrections have been attempted for as long as 24
hours after exitus, the amount of experience that is lost in the lands
of the dead increases with time.  Successful attempts few hours after
death, often return the deceased to life in perfect condition.

The person being resurrected must still be a ghost, and is given a choice
to "Accept" the resurrection for small amount of time after the spell is cast.
If they do so, and the remains are still in existence they are resurrected at
the spot of their demise, and returned to good health even though they will
feel unnatural calm for next day.  A person who accepts resurrection soon loses
their ghost status.  Condition loss due to death is only reversed by this spell
in case of NPC deaths.

HELP HEALER
~

#355
-1 `CONTINUAL LIGHT`~
CONTINUAL LIGHT

syntax: cast 'continual light'
        commune 'continual light'

Continual light creates a bright ball of light that can be held and used to
illuminate dark rooms.
~

#356
-2 psion~ 'MENTAL KNIFE'~
MENTAL KNIFE  AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

syntax: cast 'mental knife' <target>

Psions have the unique ability to cast a powerful spell that would
cut through an opponents' psyche and mind like a searing knife.  If victim
fails to save they will be unable to fashion any beneficial spells for short
while.

 See Also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#357
-1 'VEIL OF DARKNESS' VEIL~
VEIL OF DARKNESS

syntax: cast 'veil of darkness' <target>

A spell which summon shadows and darkness about the victim, forming tall
walls of impenetrable darkness.  The victim of this spell will be unable
to see anything except things in near proximity.  While people and objects
in immediate area can bee seen, details about ones area, surroundings 
and even immediate location will be impossible to gleam through the shadows.
~

#358
-1 'SEQUENCER'~
SEQUENCER

syntax: sequencer add <spell name>
	sequencer use


Some of those magically inclined have found a way to inscribe a power of 
a spell into a rune held stable by arcane forces.  Thus due to rune's
ability to call forth such spells in the sequence they were stored, the
rune carries the name Sequencer.  The user may store any defensive
spell into the sequencer as long as the incantation is not too powerful.
Up to 5 cantrips may be thus stored, and released upon the will of caster
at not cost, nor delay.  Note however that the cost to store a spell into 
the rune is far more then normal.
~

#359
-1 'FOREST MIST'~
FOREST MIST

syntax: commune 'forest mist' <target>

Druids have learned the ability to command the forest to engulf the target
in a sea of flora. The target will be disoriented and confused, losing all
sense of its whereabouts in any terrain with significant vegetation or humidity. 
Ancient scrolls speak of powerful druids bringing their enemies into the mist, 
some never to return.
~

#360
-1 'CONTROL FAUNA'~
CONTROL FAUNA

syntax: commune 'control fauna' <target>

A skilled druid is able to call upon the servants of the earth to rise and
bind the target to the ground. The target will find itself unable to fly
for a short period of time, enabling the druid advantages in combat.
~

#361
-1 'THUNDER STORM'~
THUNDER STORM

syntax: commune 'thunder storm' 

Thunder storm allows the druid to call upon the wraith of nature.
Torrential rains and lightning will harm all in close proximity to 
the caster. The skill of the druid determines the strength of the storm.
Legend speaks of warring druids using the thunder storm to clear hordes
of those that anger them, though this is oft thought only to be rumor.
~

#362
-1 'SHIELD OF THORNS'~
SHIELD OF THORNS

syntax: commune 'shield of thorns'

The shield of thorns creates a magical barrier of thorns to protect and
obey the caster. Those in direct combat with the casting druid will find
it near impossible to harm the druid without being hindered and damaged by
the thorns.
~

#363
-1 MYTHOLOGY MYTHO MYTHOS CREATION MIRLAN~
Mythology of Mirlan

  In the beginning there was the Order that men call Noirlz and the Chaos
they name Krasq.  Forever they strove against one another to no end, for one
was no greater than the other.  Yet from their strife came forth Gaemina, the
Great Mother.  Now both Noirlz and Krasq rushed to possess her and thusly 
overcome their enemy.  But the nature of Gaemina was such that it availed them
not; instead from the union of Noirlz sprang forth Markul, the God of Time and
Krasq, Pajumet, Goddess of Fate.  Then Gaemina sought to flee her Fathers and
their struggle, but the universe was emptiness.

  Therefore Gaemina set forth part of Herself as Light and another as Dark and
they awoke.  These brothers were Beronor the Sun God and Morgorin, Lord of
Death.  Then She brought forth the Five Sisters of the World and their brother:
Ejamina, Wyihemi, Lojani, Felana, Veshalma, and Sahaeyeh.  These She set to
build the world Mirlan.  Then She rested, wishing to create no more, but Mirlan
was out of balance and so she made Wuzamuli and Bracc, to aid Morgorin and
balance life with sickness and winter.  Then She passed into Mirlan and created
no more.

  Markul and Pajumet had two children: Amathe, Goddess of the Hearth and Ixtaros
the War God.  Beronor took Amathe to wife and from this union came Tiradel,
Rasazra, Moiwen, Arondos, and Madshem  the Gods of Weal.  From the union of
Ixtaros and Veshalma descended Syithe, Zarkirond, Ulwarzi, Jolma and Imaju: the
Lords of Strife.  Ever these two families struggled against one another.

  When Sahaeyeh first stoked his forge to create, from its depths burst Tzaelcos,
the Lord of Fire, but from whence, no one may say.  That which Sahaeyeh builds
Tzaelcos destroys, for, as without Tzaelcoss fire Sahaeyeh may not create, each
thing has the seeds of its own destruction within it.

  Of the later gods, Dormicc was created by Lojani and Felana to wander the
earth.  Before Sahaeyeh took Madshem in marriage, he was seduced by Syithe and
fathered the god Dabyula.  The children of Sahaeyeh and Madshem are Hoiwinas
and Rhuma.

  Lastly, of the races which inhabit the earth.  Sahaeyeh created the
Fey-Dwarves on his forge and gave them life, from which the dwarves reckon their
descent.  The marriage of Sahaeyeh and Madshem begot issue and they are called
the Fey-Gnomes and in time became gnomes.  From the union of Arondos and Ejamina
came the Fey-Elves, which begot the race of elves.  

  Now Gaemina awoke and summoned her children to populate Mirlan in the
multitudes.  Each in turn touched the vessel and thus Man was born.

  And yet Humans were not the last race, for some small bits were left in the
vessel from which Man had sprung and Gaemina gave these unto Amathe and said, Let
not thy siblings work be wasted.  Care for them.  Thus the halflings were the
last race to be set down on the earth and were ever loved as the last children
of creation.
~

#364
-1 'CHARGEN DETAIL NOTE'~
DETAILED CREATION

Age of Mirlan allows you to choose detailed characteristics such as build,
hair color, starting weapon and character perks.  This is not required but
may help you flesh out your character further.  
~

#365
-1 'ARMS OF GAEMINA'~
ARMS OF GAEMINA

syntax: commune 'arms of gaemina'

When called by a skilled druid, the mother and protector of nature has been
seen to embrace the druid with the embodiment of the forest.  Providing ample
protection to one so inclined.
~

#366
-1 'LIFEFORCE'~
LIFEFORCE

syntax: commune 'lifeforce'

With the study of ancient scrolls and rituals, druids have the ability to
grant the protection of nature unto themselves and others. The green aura of
natures lifeforce will provide protection not often seen with the lands.
Indeed, many a druid have been seen to endure inhuman amounts of damage
while within natures embrace. Healers of the land are known to call it
Gaemina's blessing, and natures sanctuary.
~

#367
-1 'CIRCLE OF PROTECTION'~
CIRCLE OF PROTECTION

syntax: commune 'circle of protection' <red, green, white, black, blue>

A ritual discovered by ancient druidic cultures, the circle of protection calls
upon the forces of nature to protect the caster from a certain aspect of the
lands ailments. The red and blue circles have been rumored to provide near
immunity to the forces of the elements, whereas the circles of white and black
are known to guard against zealous followers of the principles of the gods,
good and evil mean nothing to the forces of nature. Little is known of the
green circle, only that it has the potential to guard against the most powerful
of magics.
~

#368
-1 'TREEFORM'~
TREEFORM

syntax: commune 'treeform'

Druids are able to alter their physical being and become one with the forest.
In such a state a druid is near impossible to discern from his surroundings
and carries the blessings of Gaemina. In this form, the druid is bereft of the
ability to perform taxing actions such as engaging in combat and the like and
pays upkeep in form of mana to hold his or her form.
~

#369
-1 'DELUGE WATER'~
DELUGE WATER

syntax: commune 'deluge water' <target>

A druid can create a great deluge of water. By focusing this energy into a
small cube, the druid is able to intensify the power of the water, causing it
to do great harm to those in its path.
~

#370
-1 'RESTORATION'~
RESTORATION

syntax: commune 'restoration'
syntax: commune 'restoration' <target>

A powerful spell derived from ancient druidic culture.  The ritual of
restoration is rumored to remove specific ailments affecting the caster.
Skilled druids have been seen to flee from battle, only to return untouched
by the maledictions of combat.
~

#371
-1 'HEAL MANA'~
HEAL MANA

syntax: commune 'heal mana'

Through intense meditation, those of the druidic following are able to restore
a portion of their mental power. Such a ritual takes prodigious patience and
time to achieve a desirable result.
~

#372
-1 'TRAP OF SILVANUS'~
TRAP OF SILVANUS

syntax: silvanus

The ancient druid Silvanus left scrolls detailing the inner complexities of a
trap. Originally designed to keep unwanted visitors away from the druids groves
and forests, the trap will hinder any unsuspecting traveler who walks into it.
It is known to greatly slow one who is not aware of it and often leaves
confusion and destruction in its wake, as an angry druid does not look kindly
on intruders to his home.
~

#373
-1 'BREW'~
BREW

syntax: brew <item>

Passed down from generation to generation, the ancient technique of brewing has
become somewhat of a trademark of the druidic culture. A skilled druid is able
to take a handful of herbs and make them into a powerful potion. 
~

#374
-1 'DRUID STAFF'~
DRUID STAFF

syntax: druid staff

There are few druids who are not able to shape the forgotten gifts of nature,
however few are capable of making a true druids staff. With time and patience,
a skilled druid is able to make a powerful weapon out of little to no
resources.
~

#375
-1 'FASTING'~
FASTING

syntax: fasting

A hermetic and solitary breed by nature, the common druid rarely visits cities,
and as such is able to develop a temporary resistance to the effects of hunger
and thirst. After a long period of fasting, a druid will find he is overcome
with ravenous urges to fill his stomach.
~

#376
-1 'ENTANGLE'~
ENTANGLE

syntax: entangle

With a word, a druid is able to command the shrubbery to entangle the movements
of a target. The target will find itself greatly hindered in combat, and indeed
while hindered will lose the power and strength to deliver effective blows.
~

#377
-1 'VISITATION'~
VISITATION

syntax commune 'visitation'

Communing far into the lower planes of existence, shamans are capable of
marking a victim's soul for a servant bound to their purpose.  The demonic
forces called by the communer will travel towards their marked pray wrecking
their bloody vengeance upon them.  Few are those who have been marked in such
fashion and live without nightmares of terrible visitations by spirits of
darkness.
~

#378
-1 'FIELDDRESSING' 'FIELD DRESSING'~
FIELD DRESSING

syntax: field dressing

Field dressing is an ancient art learned by Sorcerers allowing them to heal
very rapidly.  In order to do this, they apply ointments and  spells to their
body which restrict movement and slow them down.
~

#379
-1 VOODOO 'VOODOO DOLL' 'VOODOODOLL'~
VOODOO DOLL

The art of voodoo is one practiced by high-level shamans.  The shaman uses the
dark arcane arts to bring harm to their enemies over great distances.

MAKING A VOODOO DOLL
To first bring harm to an enemy, the shaman must first make a voodoo doll.  To
do so, the shaman must choose a target.  Once the target is found, they must
create a doll by using the following syntax:  voodoo create <target>.

USING A VOODOO DOLL
After a voodoo doll is made of the target, the shaman may then use it to bring
harm to their target.  The shaman may bring weaken, curse, plague, poison, hex,
harm, insomnia, blindness, and enfeeblement onto the victim.  To place such a
burden, use the following syntax: 

voodoo place <target> <spell>.

Since this making a doll takes time, many moons may pass before a shaman can
make another.  Also dolls are rare, and as such are subject to the rare limit
of your inventory (one less then your rank divided by 10).
~

#380
-1 'MASS HYSTERIA'~
'MASS HYSTERIA'

Syntax: commune 'mass hysteria' <victim>

By increasing the anxiety of the target, the communer can bring the target into
a state of hysteria.  While the target is panicking, they will have difficulty
recalling their skills and have trouble finding a way to escape.  The spell
affects anyone grouped with the original victim of the spell.
~

#381
-2 psion~ TELEPATHY~
TELEPATHY

Syntax: telepathy <person> <message> 

  Those Psionicsts whom wish to dwell on more subtle and mysterious powers of
the mind may focus their studies on uses of this skill.  The following abilities
depend on arts of Kinesis:
  Omen
  Deathmare
  Mindmelt
  Dreamprobe
  Phase Shift
  Mental Knife
  Spell Vise
  Spell Blast
  Spell Trap

See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, DOMINATION
~

#382
-1 'TWO HANDED' TWOHANDED TWOHAND ~
'TWO HANDED'

Warriors, berserkers, ranger, paladins, and dark-knights have the ability
to control two handed weapons with intense training. With this training, 
while holding the weapon firmly with two hands they can use it to block an 
attack and stop it short.  Those who do not have this skill will find it 
difficult to battle with two handed weapons.
~

#383
-1 'ACCESSION'~
'ACCESSION'

Syntax: commune 'accession' <target>

Accession is perhaps the strongest beneficial supplicant the healer has in
their possession.  It unleashes the hidden potential each character holds back,
enhancing their main attributes.  Due to the strain accession puts on a
character, a rest period is required before it can be performed again.
~

#384
-1 HAYMAKER~
syntax: haymaker

A berserker may harness their power into a hit that may cause the target to
lose focus on their undertakings.   Once the target loses focus, they no longer
have the mind set to keep their magical priorities up.  With the target unable
to upkeep their spells the berserker can take full advantage of their opponent.
~

#385
-1 'ACID BLAST'~
'ACID BLAST'

Syntax: cast 'acid blast' <target>

This spell forms a stream of acid, which the caster throws at the victim.  The
spell inflicts a massive amount of damage on its victims due to the corrosive
nature of the projectile.  It is a spell that can only be learned by
necromancers.
~

#386
50 COLOR COLORS~
COLORS 
To set color in a description fields i.e. in a mob `!(never in a short desc as
the code shows up with the color)``, long or desc, and in a room desc, or obj
desc, get in to one of the editors, OEDT, REDIT, MEDIT. 

Colors have special operators to make them work.  

Before the text that you desire to have colored you need to use the  accent key.
The same key that is on the same key `9but not shifted`` as the tilde and one of
the numbers below directly after, no spaces.  To close the colored text you need
to use two of the accent.  The character key is at the upper left hand of most
key boards on the same row as the numbers.

1  `1Deep Red``
!  `!Bright Red``
2  `2Dark Green``
@  `@Bright Green``
3  `3Gold``
#  `#Bright Yellow``
4  `4Dark Blue``
$  `$Bright Blue``
5  `5Dark purple``
%  `%Bright Purple``
6  `6Teal``
^  `^Bright Aqua``
7  `7White``
&  `&Light Gray``
8  `8Gray``
>  `!Black but does not show up on most screens/muds.``
~

#387
-1 'ANIMATE CORPSE'~
'ANIMATE CORPSE'

Syntax: cast 'animate corpse' corpse

Necromancers who draw their powers from the negative energies of souls have
developed the ability to animate dead corpses.  The corpses will rise up and
start following the necromancer as his master.  However, this process is very
draining to the necromancer, thus he may only animate corpses sporadically. 

See also: HELP ORDER COMMAND.
~

#388
-1 ARMOR~
ARMOR

Syntax: cast 'armor'
Syntax: cast 'armor' <target>
Syntax: commune 'armor'
Syntax: commune 'armor' <target>

This spell magically enhances the armor that the person is wearing.  The spell
makes the armor tougher, allowing it to deflect more damage away from the 
wearer of the armor.
~

#389
-1 BARRIER~
BARRIER

Syntax: commune 'barrier'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield against physical damage.  However
the upkeep of this spell is very stressful.  The caster would have to put in
more mental energy every time a physical attack is directed at him in order to
deflect the damage toward him.  Once the caster's mana has been depleted, the
barrier will disappear.
~

#390
-1 BLASPHEMY~
BLASPHEMY

Syntax: commune 'blasphemy' <target>

Communing blasphemy at a target will cause them to have doubts about their
religion.  While tainted by the blasphemy the target will lose their ability to
commune and as the faith leaves them, enter a state of hysteria. Certain spells
that involve their alignment and religion such as prayer, bless, etc will also
have no affect on the target, as long as their faith remain faltered.

See also: HELP COMMUNE
~

#391
-1 BLINDNESS~
BLINDNESS

Syntax: cast 'blindness' <target>
Syntax: commune 'blindness' <target>

This spell magically blinds your opponents.  He will loose his sight for some 
duration of time if it is not cured.  The effect of the spell is more powerful 
and can blind the opponent longer at a higher level.
~

#392
-2 vampire~ BLOODLUST~
BLOODLUST

Syntax: cast 'bloodlust'

When a vampire's lust for blood has reached its peak with bloodlust, their 
senses are enhanced greatly, and they are able to detect almost anything 
that can hunger their thirst for blood.  At the initial moment when the 
spell is cast, their hunger is so strong, that they will have the overwhelming 
urge to attack the first possible target, friend or foe.
~

#393
-2 vampire~ BLOOD GOUT~
BLOOD GOUT

Syntax: cast 'blood gout'

By reinforcing their hunger with the dark force of the covenant a vampire
becomes capable of exercising control over any substantial amount of blood 
in the area.  As blood shoots forth, a powerful enough chide can direct the
blood and feed at leisure. It is rumored that Elders are capable of bleeding
a victim dry in seconds with this cruel spell.
~

#394
-1 BURNINGHANDS 'BURNING HANDS'~
'BURNING HANDS'

Syntax: cast 'burning hands' <target>

This spell empowers the hands of the caster, making his hands as hot as a 
burning fire.  The caster then touches his opponent, inflicting damage to 
the victim due to the heat.  The nature of this spell is a fire-based attack 
and thaumaturgists only possess it.
~

#395
-1 CALLLIGHTNING 'CALL LIGHTNING'~
'CALL LIGHTNING'

Syntax: cast 'call lightning' <target>

Rangers and Thaumaturgists have partial control of the elements.  When the
weather is poor, they have the ability to call down lightning bolts upon their 
opponents.  The damage inflicted by this spell is a lightning-based attack, 
and any significant amount of metal/armor on the target will enhance the 
effect greatly.

See also 'HELP CONTROL WEATHER'.
~

#396
-1 CALM~
CALM

Syntax: commune 'calm'

One of the most useful and often overlooked abilities of the healer and cleric 
is the calm spell, which attempts to relax any aggressive creature and those in 
combat with the caster.  Successfully calmed targets will lose any violent urges 
and in case of mindless creatures stop attacks on the caster's party.  Due to 
their nature, the Undead are particularly vulnerable to this spell.
~

#397
-1 CANCELLATION~
CANCELLATION

Syntax: cast 'cancellation'
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <spell>
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <character> 
Syntax: cast 'cancellation' <character> <spell>

The spell cancellation allows the caster to remove all or specific magical
enhancements that are affecting him.  This spell does not always guarantee 
that spells affecting the caster will be removed.  One may have to cast it 
several times to remove every single affect.  Some spells that cause harmful 
ailments may not be removed by the cancellation spell and must be cured. 
Some offensive spells cast by opponents may not be cancelled at all.
~

#398
-1 CAUSELIGHT 'CAUSE LIGHT' 'CAUSE SERIOUS' 'CAUSE CRITICAL' HARM~
'CAUSE LIGHT' 'CAUSE SERIOUS' 'CAUSE CRITICAL' HARM

Syntax: commune 'cause light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cause serious' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cause critical' <target>
Syntax: commune 'harm' <target>

These spells inflicts damage on the victim not by inflicting physical pain, 
but by hurting the victim through magic.  The spells itself is an active 
agent in causing the damage.  The higher the level the more damage it causes, 
with harm being the most powerful spell. Dark-knights and shamans have the 
ability to cast these spells.
~

#399
-1 CHAINLIGHTNING 'CHAIN LIGHTNING'~
'CHAIN LIGHTNING'

Syntax: cast 'chain lightning' <target>

A spell considered most inappropriate by the guild of Thaumaturgists, it was
developed by some misguided member of that guild with precise goal of targeting
other Thaumaturgists.  When cast, it creates a countless number of small
lighting bolts, that arc between the caster and the victim.  While the lighting
bolts do practically no damage, they have a particular ability to quickly
overload the mana shield and spell turning spells if its present.
~

#400
-1 CHANGESEX 'CHANGE SEX'~
'CHANGE SEX'

Syntax: cast 'change sex' <target>

This spell magically alter the sex of your victim for a duration of time.  
While under the spell, a person would appear to others as an "it" for they 
would not hold any distinguishable sexual characteristics.
~

#401
-1 CHARMPERSON 'CHARM PERSON'~
CHARM PERSON

Syntax: cast 'charm person' <target>

Charm person, if successful, causes the victim to follow the caster and to 
take orders from him.  The victim would not be able to resist the caster.  
Also, he would not be able to attack the caster.  One would use the command 
ORDER to order their charmed followers to execute various actions.  You are
able to order your follower to sleep prior to the spell's expiration, thus
making it easier to recast the spell, but be warned, upon the spell's expiration,
your once charmed follower will attack you on sight. 

See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#402
-1 CHILLTOUCH 'CHILL TOUCH'~
'CHILL TOUCH'

Syntax: cast 'chill touch' <target>

This spell empowers the hands of the caster, making his hands as cold as ice.  
The caster then touches his opponent, inflicting damage to the victim due to 
the extreme chill of his hands.  The coldness of the caster's hands will also 
weaken his victim. The nature of this spell is a cold-based attack and it is 
only possessed by necromancers, sorcerers, and dark knights.
~

#403
-1 CHORUSOFANGUISH 'CHORUS OF ANGUISH'~
'CHORUS OF ANGUISH'

Syntax: cast 'chorus of anguish' <target>

The tunes of death that the deceased can sing can inflict anguish upon the 
target.  The deadly songs can be heard in a radius that echoes throughout the
current room.
~

#404
-1 COMPREHEND LANGUAGE' 'COMPREHEND LANGUAGES' COMPREHEND~
'COMPREHEND LANGUAGES'

Syntax: cast 'comprehend languages' <target>

This spell allows the target to understand all manners of speech and foreign 
tongues.  This includes all strange tongues, drunks/morons, and incarnations 
of mages other then one's guild.
~

#405
-1 CONTROLWEATHER 'CONTROL WEATHER'~
'CONTROL WEATHER'

Syntax: cast 'control weather' better
Syntax: cast 'control weather' worse

Control weather is a spell that is taught to young rangers and thaumaturgists, 
allowing them to have partial control over the elements.  They may alter the
weather to make it better or worse to however they see fit.
~

#406
-3 demon~ CORRUPTION CORRUPT~
CORRUPTION

syntax: corrupt <target>

Demons, the twisted products of Crypticant's hate and evil, have ability to
taint a victim with the primal essence of chaos and evil.  Those infected with
the vile taint not only will find themselves forsaken by the gods, but with the
very fabric of reality around them parting and twisting any spell casting will 
be a strenuous task.  Ancient documents speak of demons ravaging whole legions 
of corrupted clerics and paladins, as they vainly tried to call for help upon 
their gods...
~

#407
-1 COUNTERFEIT~
COUNTERFEIT

Syntax: counterfeit <obj>

Used by thieves who want to earn some quick cash.  This skill allows the user
to create a replica in appearance of another object.  There are ways to
determine whether a object is a counterfeit or not.
~

#408
-1 CREATEFOOD 'CREATE FOOD' 'CREATE SPRING' 'CREATE WATER'~
'CREATE FOOD' 'CREATE SPRING' 'CREATE WATER'

Syntax: cast 'create food'
Syntax: cast 'create spring'
Syntax: cast 'create water' <target>
Syntax: commune 'create food'
Syntax: commune 'create spring'
Syntax: commune 'create water' <target>

The creation spells are spells learned by many magic users in some form. Create
food creates a magical mushroom which may be eaten as food.  The spell becomes
more powerful as the mushrooms created becomes more filling to a hungry
appetite.  Create spring magically creates a spring at the feet of a caster,
allowing for all passerby to drink out of the spring.  Create water is a spell
that replenishes a specific drink container with water.  
~

#409
-1 CUREBLINDNESS 'CURE BLINDNESS'~
'CURE BLINDNESS'

Syntax: commune 'cure blindness'
Syntax: commune 'cure blindness' <target>

The cure blindness spell cures those who were blinded through a magical
agent.  Thus, the spell acts as a counter to the blindness spell.  However,
this spell cannot cure those who were blinded by physical agents, such as 
dirt kick.
~

#410
-1 CURELIGHT 'CURE LIGHT' 'CURE SERIOUS' 'CURE CRITICAL' HEAL 'MASS HEALING'~
'CURE LIGHT' 'CURE SERIOUS' 'CURE CRITICAL' HEAL 'MASS HEALING'

Syntax: cast 'cure light'
Syntax: cast 'cure light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure light'
Syntax: commune 'cure light' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure serious'
Syntax: commune 'cure serious' <target>
Syntax: commune 'cure critical'
Syntax: commune 'cure critical' <target>
Syntax: commune 'heal'
Syntax: commune 'heal' <target>
Syntax: commune 'mass healing'

These spells magically cure wounds that the person had received in his 
journey.  However, it does not cure any other afflictions that he might 
have received.  For example, it cannot cure blindness, poison, or disease.  
It can only cure the wounds that the person has.  The higher the level the 
more wound it can cure, with heal being the most powerful spell.  Mass healing
cures everyone in the room as well as refreshes them from their journey.  
Clerics and paladins and dark-knights to a very small degree are the only 
ones to have learned these spells.
~

#411
-1 CUREDISEASE 'CURE DISEASE'~
'CURE DISEASE'

Syntax: commune 'cure disease'
Syntax: commune 'cure disease' <target>

Several guilds have taught their flock the ability to cure the diseases that 
adventurers may pick up as they travel throughout the realm.  These diseases 
often plagues the victim, as well as those that he comes in contact with. This 
spell can remove the disease from the victim, allowing him to travel without 
any further hindrances.
~

#412
-1 CUREPOISON 'CURE POISON'~
'CURE POISON'

Syntax: commune 'cure poison'
Syntax: commune 'cure poison' <target>

Several guilds have taught their flock the ability to cure those who are 
poisoned either by taking in poisoned items or inflicted upon them 
magically.  While poisoned, the victim often experiences wounds and lack 
of both mental and physical energy.  This spell can remove the poison 
from the victim's body, allowing him to travel without any further 
hindrances.
~

#413
-1 CURSE~
CURSE

Syntax: cast 'curse' <target>
Syntax: commune 'curse' <target>

Evil clerics, necromancers, and dark-knights have the ability to call down 
curses upon their victims, causing them to be deemed unclean and thus forsaken
by the gods.  In such a state, the victim may not use their ability to call to
the gods for magical transportation back to their hometown.  Also, it renders
the victim to loose focus leading to a decrease in effectiveness in combat as
well as being more susceptible to additional spells that are cast on them.
~

#414
-1 CURSEWEAPON 'CURSE WEAPON'~
CURSE WEAPON

Syntax: cast 'curse weapon' <object>

Necromancers can place a curse upon their weapons, causing it to be irremovable
and unable to be dropped.  However, the weapon cannot avoid damage when trying
to curse it, thus the blade might suffer some penalties upon each attempt.
There is even a chance the weapon cannot withstand the curse, and be destroyed.

Also see: MALFORM WEAPON
~

#415
-1 DARKSHROUD 'DARK SHROUD'~
'DARK SHROUD'

Syntax: commune 'dark shroud' <target>

Enshrouding oneself by the shadows of the phantoms, a communer can hide the
aura of spells that affect him.  The only affect visible on the communer will
be the shroud itself.  This does not remove the affects of other spells, it
merely disguises them.
~

#416
-1 DEATHGRASP 'DEATH GRASP'~
'DEATH GRASP'

Syntax: cast 'death grasp' <target>

By continually sending jolts of negative energy through the victims body, the
necromancer makes them susceptible to an instant death at the hands of the
Power Word Kill spell.  With each increasing successful death grasp, the chance
of a successful Power Word Kill increases.  However, there reaches a point in
where the victims body becomes immune to any more grasps of negative energy.

See also: POWERWORD KILL
~

#417
-1 DEMONFIRE~
DEMONFIRE

Syntax: commune demonfire <target>

Demonfire is a spell learned by the clerics.  Shamans may commune to their gods 
and either call upon their god to bring down divine wrath from the heavens or 
to conjure forth demonic spirits of hell to assail upon their victims.  The 
wrath or the demonic spirits that are called may not be used against those 
of the same path.  If it is done, the attack will be turned against the one 
who called forth the divine powers.
~

#418
-1 DETECTEVIL 'DETECT EVIL' 'DETECT GOOD' 'DETECT INVIS' 'DETECT MAGIC'~
'DETECT EVIL' 'DETECT GOOD' 'DETECT INVIS' 'DETECT MAGIC' 'DETECT POISON'

Syntax: cast 'detect evil'
Syntax: cast 'detect good'
Syntax: cast 'detect invis'
Syntax: cast 'detect magic'
Syntax: commune 'detect evil'
Syntax: commune 'detect good'
Syntax: commune 'detect invis'
Syntax: commune 'detect magic'

The detect evil spell enables the caster to distinguish those who follows the
path of darkness, revealing a characteristic red aura around the person.  It
also enables the caster to distinguish objects of an evil origin or nature.

The detect good spell enables the caster to distinguish those who follows the
path of light, revealing a characteristic golden aura around the person.

The detect invis spell enables the caster to see those who have concealed 
themselves by the invisibility spell.  It also enables the caster to see
objects that are invisible by nature.

The detect magic spell enables the caster to see those items that contain
magical qualities.  
~

#419
-1 DETERIORATE~
DETERIORATE

Syntax: commune 'deteriorate' <target>

The defense of the target is lowered by the deterioration of their
armor and resistance.  The target's armor class will be less effective
and they will be more susceptible to spells.  This spell's chance to 
affect its victim is directly related to the target's save versus spell
and malediction statistics.

~

#420
-1 DISPELEVIL 'DISPEL EVIL' 'DISPEL GOOD' 'DISPEL MAGIC'~
'DISPEL EVIL' 'DISPEL GOOD' 'DISPEL MAGIC'

Syntax: cast 'dispel magic' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel magic' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel evil' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel good' <target>
Syntax: commune 'dispel magic' <target>

The dispel evil spell calls upon the wrath of the gods of light upon the
victim, inflicting great damage.  Only those who walks in the path of
darkness are affected by this spell.  Healers, shamans, and paladins are
the only ones who have this spell.

The dispel good spell calls upon the gods of darkness to inflict a horrific 
torment on the victim.  Only those who walks in the path of light are affected 
by this torment.  Dark-knights have this spell learned as part of their 
training.

Dispel magic is an offensive spell that removes the spells affecting your 
opponent.  It does not discriminate which types of spells to remove, thus 
it may remove both benign or harmful spells affecting him.  Not all spells
may be dispelled.  Spells affecting the creatures in the realm may not be 
dispelled because those spells are held by those creatures by nature, they 
are not casted onto the creatures by men.

~

#421
-1 DYSENTERY~
DYSENTERY

Syntax: commune 'dysentery' <target>

Disrupting the digestive system of the target, they will quickly void out any
food in their system.  The target will experience extreme hunger, and eating
will only harm them more than help.  Every once in a while the pain will be so
unbearable it will force the victim on their knees.  Liquids will not harm the
victim, but no nutrition can be absorbed from it.
~

#422
-1 EARTHQUAKE~
EARTHQUAKE

Syntax: commune 'earthquake'

Earthquake allows the caster to cause the ground to shake, causing wounds to all 
those in the room.  Those who are flying at the time will not be affected by
this spell.  There are rumors of this spell forcing strange mists out of the 
ground at times, but those are thought to be only rumors.
~

#423
-1 EDGECRAFT 'EDGE CRAFT'~
EDGE CRAFT

Syntax: edge <object>

During their training as a bard or thief, they have learned to transform
useless objects into deadly weapons.  They mastered the craft, edging, to 
sharpen trash, treasures, and keys into shurikens or daggers.  Though items
of low quality are easily sharpened for deadly use, it is the rare and limited
artifacts of the lands that allow for creation of truly useful ordinance.
~

#424
-2 vampire~ EMBRACE~
EMBRACE

Syntax: embrace <target>

Stalking cities at night, a Kindred is silent and deadly killer. Yet those that
have thought them know that it not their combat prowess nor deadly sorcery that
is to be feared. For the vampire's bite along with their foul taint carries the
dreadful curse of unlife, often turning the victim into the very being he was
sworn to destroy as the blood of undead begins to course through their veins.

If this occurs and the vampires blood flows freely about the victim, he to will
become dark, thus tainting the faith and acceptance of all like them.  Luckily
any healing spell will combat the spreading disease, and Paladins are extremely
skilled in curing the foul mark using their lay on hands ability.

See also: LAY ON HANDS
~

#425
-1 'ENCHANT WEAPON'~
'ENCHANT WEAPON'
 
Syntax: cast 'enchant weapon' (object)
 
The enchant weapon spell magically enchants a weapon, increasing the power of
the weapon.  Multiple enchants may be cast, but as the weapon grows more and
more powerful, it is more likely to be drained or destroyed by the magic.  
Also, every successful enchant renders the weapon more powerful, thus 
considered higher in rank.
~

#426
-1 ENERGYDRAIN 'ENERGY DRAIN'~
'ENERGY DRAIN'

Syntax: cast 'energy drain' <target>
Syntax: commune 'energy drain' <target>

Necromancers and dark-knights learn energy drain as part of their training. 
This spell allows the caster to magically sap a small amount of health, 
but most importantly, it saps the victim of his mental energy and physical 
energy, hindering his ability to cast spells and move around.  This spell 
also drains some experience from the victim, relieving him of some of the 
experiences that he had gained throughout his journey. 
~

#427
-1 ENLARGE SHRINK~
ENLARGE SHRINK

Syntax: cast 'enlarge'
Syntax: cast 'enlarge' <target>
Syntax: cast 'shrink'
Syntax: cast 'shrink' <target>

The enlarge spell increases the size of the person for a short duration of 
time.  Along with the increased size come its advantages and disadvantages. 
The shrink spell is the opposite of the enlarge spell.  It decreases the 
size of the person for a short duration of time, also giving him the 
advantages and disadvantages of his new size.
~

#428
-1 ENVENOM~
ENVENOM

Syntax: envenom <object>

This allows the user to spread a thin layer of poison on edged weapons
or inject poison into food and drink containers.  Once the object is
contaminated, there is a chance it will poison the victim that is
either injured by the weapon, or ingested the poisoned food or drink.
~

#429
-1 'ETHEREAL PASSAGE'~
'ETHEREAL PASSAGE'

Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' north
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' east
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' south
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' west
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' up
Syntax: commune 'ethereal passage' down

A temporal warp opened to the ethereal dimension, allowing a short passage
in a certain direction.  This allows the communer to walk through certain
doors, and other barriers.  Certain rooms prevents the ethereal passage from
working.
~

#430
-1 EXTORT~
EXTORT

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Using their powerful intimidation techniques a person who uses theis skill
forces a shopkeeper to give up an item for less money than it is worth, 
sometimes for free.  Most shopkeepers will let cheap items go easily, but
will not be so easily intimidated when their valuables are at stake.
~

#431
-1 'FAERIE FIRE'~
FAERIE FIRE

Syntax: cast 'faerie fire' <target>
Syntax: commune 'faerie fire' <target>

Faerie fire is an offensive spell.  It surrounds the victim with a pink 
aura which prevents him from concealing himself in anyway.  Also, it 
worsens the victim's armor class, making him easier to hit as well as taking 
more damage when hit.  Note that faerie's own magical properties negate
this spell making it useless against that race.
~

#432
-1 'FAERIE FOG'~
'FAERIE FOG'

Syntax: cast 'faerie fog'
Syntax: commune 'faerie fog'

The spell faerie fog conjures up a yellow fog within the room, revealing all 
those who are concealed in anyway.  It also surrounds the victim with a yellow
aura, preventing him to conceal himself for a short duration of time.  Faerie
fog is not an offensive spell, thus it will not start fights with those around
the caster.  Note that faerie's own magical properties negate this spell making
it useless against that race.
~

#433
-1 'FIRE SHIELD' 'ICE SHIELD'~
'FIRE SHIELD' 'ICE SHIELD'

Syntax: cast 'fire shield'
Syntax: cast 'ice shield'

These spells creates a magical shield of the specific element surrounding the
thaumaturgist.  The shield acts as a protective barrier from the thaumaturgist's 
opponents.  If an opponent is in combat with the thaumaturgist, there is a
chance that the shield surrounding the thaumaturgist will wound their opponent.  
Also, the shield acts as a dampening or an enhancement device against natural
elements.  Fire attacks against an thaumaturgist while he has surrounded
himself with a fire shield will enhance the attack whereas ice attacks will be
dampened and be decreased in power.  The basic thaumaturgist spells of Flame
Arrow and Icicle can be further enhanced in power by the shield of their
respective elements.
~

#434
-1 FIREBALL ICEBALL~
FIREBALL ICEBALL

Syntax: cast 'fireball'
Syntax: cast 'iceball'

These spells creates a large ball of the respective elemental forces which
fills the room, causing wounds to everyone around the caster other than him and
his group mates.  These spells have been known to be quite powerful, inflicting
great wounds against the victims.  Fireball has known to inflict massive amounts
of damage while being easier to defend against. Its counterpart is far more
dependable at a price of raw damage.
~

#435
-1 FIRESTORM~
Syntax: cast 'firestorm'

Calling upon the mightiest forces of fire and hell the Thaumaturgists can create 
this virtual storm of fire and brimstone.  As the hellish maelstrom of fire and
sulfur twists over the area, it rains flaming debris on all those that cannot
take cover or are unlucky enough to stumble into it.  The enchantment takes
immense concentration on the thaumaturgists part and is not easy to maintain. 
~

#436
-1 'FLAME ARROW'~
'FLAME ARROW'

Syntax: cast 'flame arrow' <target>

Thaumaturgists have acquired the flame arrow spell through their training.  This 
spell creates an arrow of pure fire which the caster may throw at his opponent.
It is known to cause great damage to the victim.
~

#437
-1 FLAMESTRIKE~
FLAMESTRIKE

Syntax: commune 'flamestrike' <target>

Flamestrike is a spell that creates a giant stream of flame which the caster 
can direct toward the victim.  The attack brought forth by this spell is a 
fire-based attack and the scorching flames may blind the target at times.
When used by the righteous Paladin, this spell strikes the victim as well as
all of their allies present.
~

#438
-1 'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'~
'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'

Syntax: cast 'flesh golem'
Syntax: cast 'stone golem'

Necromancers have gained the ability to call forth golems from their long 
training in the undead.  Flesh golems are the weaker of the two types of golems
and can be controlled by a lower ranked necromancer.  Stone golems are the 
stronger of the two types of golems, thus only a high ranked necromancer can 
control.

See also 'HELP ORDER COMMAND'.
~

#439
-1 AFFECT AFFECTS~
AFFECTS 

Syntax: affects
	affects full
	affects list
	affects # <designation> <affect name>	

This command is used to show all the spells affecting your character. Spell 
effects are no longer shown on score (this can be changed by using 'show' 
command).

CUSTOM DISPLAY
You can customize the display of affects with a shorthand designation in
order to get a better and faster idea of which of your spells are active.

For example "affect 1 San sanctuary" would put in the designation 'San'
in the first display spot and bind it with the spell sanctuary.

To clear a display spot, simply use "affect #" and it will be reset.

The spells which are not included in your custom display will still
be shown normal way when you use "affect" command.  To get a full display
of all your spells and their effects, use "affect full".
~

#440
-1 'FLAME ARROW'~
'FLAME ARROW'

Syntax: cast 'flame arrow' <target>

Thaumaturgists have acquired the flame arrow spell through their training.  This 
spell creates an arrow of pure fire which the caster may throw at his opponent.
It is known to cause great damage to the victim.
~

#441
-1 'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'~
'FLESH GOLEM' 'STONE GOLEM'

Syntax: cast 'flesh golem'
Syntax: cast 'stone golem'

Necromancers have gained the ability to call forth golems from their long 
training in the undead.  Flesh golems are the weaker of the two types of golems
and can be controlled by a lower ranked necromancer.  Stone golems are the 
stronger of the two types of golems, thus only a high ranked necromancer can 
control.
~

#442
-1 FLY~
FLY

Syntax: cast 'fly'
Syntax: cast 'fly' <target>
Syntax: commune 'fly'
Syntax: commune 'fly' <target>

The fly spell enables the person affected by the spell to be able to fly.  
While affected by this spell, a person may travel to regions a regular 
person may not go to.  He can also journey over water without using a boat.  
Furthermore, a flying person would not be affected by opponents that try to 
trip them or other ground based spells like earthquake.  
~

#443
-1 FRENZY~
FRENZY

Syntax: commune 'frenzy'
Syntax: commune 'frenzy' <target>

The frenzy spell fills the person with righteous fury, greatly increasing his 
attack skill and damaging capacity.  Unfortunately, this divine wrath is coupled
with a tendency to ignore threats to personal safety, making the himself easier
to hit.  Frenzy provides immunity to the calm spell, and may only be used on
those of the caster's alignment.
~

#444
-1 'GHOUL TOUCH'~
GHOUL TOUCH

Syntax: cast 'ghoul touch' <target>

Using the negative energy that surrounds them, Necromancers are able to drain
strength away from the body of their victim.  Although the necromancer gains no
beneficial affects, their victim will begin to move sluggishly. Sapped of their
strength victims will take longer to perform actions in battle and will also be
slower to recover from stunning attacks.
~

#445
-1 'GIANT STRENGTH'~
'GIANT STRENGTH'

Syntax: cast 'giant strength'
Syntax: cast 'giant strength' <target>
Syntax: commune 'giant strength'
Syntax: commune 'giant strength' <target>

The giant strength spell empowers the person affected with magical energy 
resulting in an increase of his strength.  As the caster gains more experience 
and rise up in ranks, his ability to grant magical strength also increases.  
Shamans, illusionists, and psions have learned to cast giant strength.
~

#446
-1 HASTE SLOW~
HASTE SLOW

Syntax: cast 'haste'
Syntax: cast 'haste' <target>
Syntax: cast 'slow' <target>

The haste spell increases the speed and agility of the recipient.  Due to the
effect, it is known that the affected person may sometimes gain an extra attack
in combat, and gain a heightened ability in evading his opponent's attacks.
However, it produces a great strain on the system, such that recuperative
abilities are greatly hindered.

The slow spell decreases the speed and agility of the recipient.  While affected
by the spell, the victim often loses his ability to attack as rapidly as he
normally can.  The victim is also hindered in evading his opponent's attacks.
However, the spell has a calming effect on the victim which allows him to heal
more rapidly, both physically and mentally.
~

#447
-1 HELLSTREAM~
HELLSTREAM

Syntax: cast 'hellstream' <target>

Thaumaturgists have learned the ability to call forth a stream of light from
the ground, engulfing the victim with the energy of the stream.  This is one
of the most powerful spells known.  It is rumored to be able to kill opponent
in just a few streams. The power of the hellstream is so intense that equipment
meant to protect against it or infused with magical forces often shatters under
the intense stress of energy.
~

#448
-1 'HOLD UNDEAD'~
'HOLD UNDEAD'

Syntax: cast 'hold undead' <target>

The necromancer can exercise his control of the realm of the undead by being
able to make movement of an undead creature near impossible.  The undead being
will find any kind of action strenuous, and any aggressive actions will be
completely negated.
~

#449
-1 'HOLY WORD'~
'HOLY WORD'

Syntax: commune 'holy word'

  Drawing upon their very foundations of faith, the communer of this mighty
prayer utters a word never meant for mortal lips to form.  The divine power
of this incantation fills the Paladin with such fervor and righteous spirit
that it allows them to bring down the wrath of their deity even at those
whom are at brink of death.   Thus supported the prayer of wrath has a greater
chance to curse the victims and increased ability to ignore magical defenses
even against those whom are sorely wounded.

See also: WRATH
~

#450
-1 'HOLY WATER'~
'HOLY WATER'

Syntax: commune 'holy water' <drink container>

A healer can grant pure water the blessing from the gods.  Once blessed,
the water becomes holy water.  When goods drink it, they shall receive
the blessing from the heavens, and refreshed with the purity of the
water.  Evils will be burned by the touch of the water, and have a chance 
of being cursed.  Neutrals are not affected.  Only a certain quantity of 
water can be blessed at a time.
~

#451
-1 HURRICANE~
HURRICANE

Since well trained thaumaturgist has great control over the elements, they have 
achieved control over the greatest of all elements...a hurricane.  A skilled 
thaumaturgist can isolate a powerful hurricane in a small area.  With the powerful 
winds, anyone unlucky enough to be caught in it shall be thrown to the ground 
by the winds.  Even those who fly about shall be sucked to the ground by the 
powerful winds.

See also: AIR THRASH, TRIP
~

#452
-1 HYSTERIA~
HYSTERIA

Syntax: commune 'hysteria' <target>

By increasing the anxiety of the target, the communer can bring the target into
a state of hysteria.  While the target is panicking, they will have difficulty
recalling their skills and have trouble finding a way to escape.  The affect
lasts only temporarily until the target has a chance to regain his thoughts.
~

#453
-1 TERROR~
TERROR

Syntax: cast 'terror' <target>

By bringing the victims fears to life inside their own mind, the caster can
cause the target to enter a state of dangerous panic.  While the target is
panicking, they will have difficulty recalling their skills and have trouble
finding a way to escape.  The affect lasts only short moment until the has a
chance to regain their morale.
~

#454
-1 'ICE STORM' ~
'ICE STORM' 

Syntax: cast 'ice storm'

This spell conjures a storm of elements of ice and lightning, inflicting wounds
to all those in the room due to the sub-zero temperature the storm brings.  The
spell nature makes it very dependable against opponents with magical protection
against afflictive spells, and its effectiveness more then matches icicle spell
especial against those vulnerable to cold.  At times the temperature drops to
such extreme that weapons and armor may shatter from stress of combat. Only
thaumaturgists are able to learn this spell as part of their arsenal.
~

#455
-1 ICICLE~
ICICLE

Syntax: cast 'icicle' <target>

This spell creates a magic icicle which the caster may shoot toward an opponent.
 The icicle causes wounds to an opponent not by its piercing action but rather
by its temperature.  Only thaumaturgists are able to learn this spell as part of
their arsenal.
~

#456
-1 IDENTIFY~
IDENTIFY

Syntax: cast 'identify' <object>

The identify spell reveals to the caster information about the object.  It can
reveal information such as the weight, the material, and other attributes of the
object.  Clerics and all mage classes have the opportunity to learn identify in
the course of their training.
~

#457
-1 'PORTAL'~
Syntax: cast portal

SEE ALSO: CLOSE PORTAL  HOLD PORTAL  ENTER PORTAL

At certain levels sorcerers can create a portal from "living energy" that
will link one are of the world to another which is keyed off of another person.
This creates a magical passageway for the Sorcerer to enter.  However, each
side of the portal can be attacked and destroyed leaving the non-attacked side
still intact and usable.  Objects such as weapons, equipment and gold can 
be passed through the portal via a give command such as "give portal sword" or 
"give portal 100 gold."

Once the portal is created the sorcerer can go through it via an "enter portal"
command.  A careful sorcerer will note that people can enter the portal once
created using the "enter portal" command just as they can.

Portals do not stay forever.  They will dissipate after a short period of time
and return to their own plane of existence.  
~

#458
-1 'ILLUSIONARY SPECTRE' 'PHANTASMAL GRIFFON' 'PHANTOM DRAGON'~
'PHANTASMAL GRIFFON' 'PHANTOM DRAGON' 'ILLUSIONARY SPECTRE'

Syntax: cast 'illusionary spectre' <target>
Syntax: cast 'phantasmal griffon' <target>
Syntax: cast 'phantom dragon' <target>

The illusionist creates an image of a minion to aid the caster during combat.
While false to the caster, the visage seems very real to the target.  Depending
on the creatures intelligence, it fails and succeeds depending on how soon it
figures out that it is only illusion.
~

#459
-1 INFRAVISION~
INFRAVISION

Syntax: cast 'infravision'
Syntax: cast 'infravision' <target>
Syntax: commune 'infravision'
Syntax: commune 'infravision' <target>

The infravision spell enables the person to see the changes in temperature 
around him, even if he is surrounded by darkness.  Because of this affect, 
the affected person may see his surroundings clearly. The notable known
exceptions to this are the Sliths who through their heritage have inherited
their ancestors cold blood.

See also: SLITH
~

#460
-1 INSOMNIA~
INSOMNIA

Syntax: commune 'insomnia' <target>

Exhausts the target of their mental capabilities by depriving him of sleep.
The target will experience mental fatigue and will not be able to regenerate
mana as long as they are affected by insomnia.
~

#461
-1 INVIGORATE~
INVIGORATE

Syntax: commune 'invigorate'

The highest form of refresh, this powerful supplication can restore all group
member's movements.  Only healers can learn this ability.
~

#462
-1 INVIS INVISIBILITY 'MASS INVIS'~
INVIS INVISIBILITY 'MASS INVIS'

Syntax: cast 'invisibility'
Syntax: cast 'invisibility' <target>
Syntax: cast 'mass invis'
Syntax: commune 'mass invis'

The invisibility spell makes the affected person invisible to the natural eye.
Only those who have been magically affected to see invisible can see those who 
have concealed themselves by the invisibility spell.  A person affected by the 
invisibility spell would become seen again if he is engaged in combat.  

The mass invis spell makes all the people or creatures in the caster's group
invisible, including the caster.  It has a similar effect as casting the 
invisibility spell to each and everyone in the group, thus, whoever engages in 
combat while invisible will cease to be invisible.
~

#463
-1 'JET STEAM'~
'JET STEAM'

Syntax: cast 'jet steam' <target>

This spell causes the waters surrounding the caster to be extremely heated,
creating a jet of steam instantly.  This jet of steam can directed by the 
caster toward his opponent, drowning the opponent in the steam.  This spell
can only be casted if the caster has access to a sizable water source such 
as rivers, springs or even rain.

See also: CONTROL WEATHER, CREATE SPRING
~

#464
-1 KNOCK~
KNOCK

Syntax: cast 'knock' <direction>

A set of glowing, ethereal hands are created as an extension of the casters 
arms.  In doing so, it enables the caster to enter the lock mechanisms however
complex it may be, and unlock its target.  However, its been said that there 
are some type of locks that cannot be undone.
~

#465
-1 'KNOW ALIGNMENT'~
'KNOW ALIGNMENT'

Syntax: cast 'know alignment' <target>
Syntax: commune 'know alignment' <target>

The know alignment spell reveals to the caster the path of alignment which the
affected person follows.  All mages have the ability to learn this spell.
~

#466
-1 'LIGHTNING BOLT'~
'LIGHTNING BOLT'

Syntax: cast 'lightning bolt' <target>

This spell allows the caster to create a bolt of lightning to shoots out
from his hands toward his opponent.  The damage inflicted by this spell 
is lightning-based.  
~

#467
-1 'LOCATE OBJECT'~
'LOCATE OBJECT'

Syntax: cast 'locate object' <object>
Syntax: commune 'locate object' <object>

The locate object spell reveals to the caster the location of all objects with 
the given name.  However, it does not reveal objects that are more powerful than
deemed worthy to the caster.
~

#468
-1 'MAGIC MISSILE'~
'MAGIC MISSILE'

Syntax: cast 'magic missile' <target>

The magic missile spell creates a magic missile that the caster may direct
toward his opponents, inflicting wounds against his opponents.  This spell is
taught to very young spell students, thus not very powerful in nature. However,
the spell does increase in power as the caster rise in ranks, although never
reaching to a very feared state.
~

#469
-1 'MANA SHIELD'~
'MANA SHIELD'

Syntax: cast 'mana shield'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield of pure energy.  The shield 
can help deflect magical damage inflicted by the caster's opponents. However, 
the upkeep of this spell is very stressful.  The caster would have to put in 
more mental energy every time a magical attack is directed at him in order 
to deflect the damage toward him.  The efficiency of the upkeep increases 
as the caster rise in rank.
~

#470
-1 'MIRROR IMAGE' MIRROR~
MIRROR IMAGE

Syntax: cast 'mirror image'

The spell creates a shimmering translucent image of the caster, that when
need calls for it, becomes a perfect replica of its creator confusing
enemies into striking it instead of its master.   Though only a single 
image may be created at a time, the maximum number that may be controlled 
is dependant on caster's rank.  Finally each image requires concentration 
and magical power to sustain, and will shatter when attacked, or fade away 
if distant from its creator.
~

#471
-2 vampire~ MORPH 'BAT FORM' 'WOLF FORM' 'MIST FORM'~
MORPH 'BAT FORM' 'WOLF FORM' 'MIST FORM'

Syntax: cast morph bat
Syntax: cast morph wolf
Syntax: cast morph mist

Through powers of the covenant and potent sorcery a vampire is capable of 
going through a transformation of assuming three possible forms.  While
morphed, the equipment they are wearing will become part of the form.  They
will not be able to wear, remove or get anything.  The stats from the
equipment will be carried on to the form they morph into.  Vampires can
return back to their natural form by typing 'revert'.

BAT FORM
Small and nimble, the vampire bat is extremely difficult to detect. Covering 
huge distances on its wings the vampire can quickly travel across enormous 
distance. Much like their cousins, vampire bats use sound for their sight and 
cannot be blinded by conventional means.  Due to their small size they are
quite vulnerable to the summon spell.

Commands: none

WOLF FORM
Its eyes blazing crimson, the slivering jaw parted in a deadly snarl, a vampire
wolf is a fearsome sight. Deadly silent in the forest and capable of terrifying
attacks of unmatched ferocity, a vampire wolf is an unmatched foe in its native
environment. A vampire wolf can tear at the opponent and cause terrifying 
wounds as well as tackle the opponents to the ground pinning them down. 

Commands: tear, tackle.

MIST FORM
The most difficult forms to assume. The vampire coverts his form to an
insubstantial mist becoming all but invulnerable to non-magical attacks. 
Capable of seeping through mere cracks, and immune to mundane attacks 
such as bash and grapple, a vampire becomes an unstoppable hunter.  
Vampires cannot fight in mist form, therefore they will automatically 
revert back to their natural form when attacking or after they've been 
attacked.  It requires intense concentration and energy to maintain the 
mist form, therefore, there is a mana cost to stay as a mist. Mists can 
become toxic, poisoning those in its proximity with noxious gases.

Commands: seep, toxify

~

#472
-1 'MYSTIC TENDRILS'~
MYSTIC TENDRILS'

Syntax: cast 'mystic tendrils'

It has always been said the lifeblood of a mage is not what courses through
his veins, but rather his source of mana - for what is a mage without his
powers.  Thaumaturgists, being masters of harnessing and channeling energy
through their bodies, have developed the ability to compensate for their costly
spells by tearing into their physical bodies, sacrificing life blood to regain
their invaluable mana.  This is a risky procedure, and be warned, it has been
the demise of countless many who've tried to sacrifice it all for the sake of
magic.
 ~

#473
-1 'PASS DOOR'~
'PASS DOOR'

Syntax: cast 'pass door'
Syntax: commune 'pass door'

The pass door spell transforms the caster into a translucent form, allowing him 
not to be hindered by closed doors that he may come across.  This spell also 
allows the caster to flee through closed doors otherwise considered a invalid 
exit in the middle of combat.
~

#474
-1 'PHANTOM GRASP'~
PHANTOM GRASP

Syntax: cast 'phantom grasp' <target>

Phantom grasp summons forth the phantoms lurking in the darkness to
consume its target in negative energy.  The phantoms are able to slowly
wear down the magical resistance of the victim and each successful grasp
extends the strength and duration of the effect.
~

#475
-1 PILFER~
PILFER

Syntax: pilfer <object>

While fighting, the thief can attempt to knock an object from the opponents
inventory.  Since this is done in heat and bustle of combat the chance to
succeed is far better then when attempting to steal the same object, and less
likely to be noticed by the victim.

See also: STEAL
~

#476
-2 psion~ 'PHASE SHIFT'~
PHASE SHIFT

Syntax: cast 'phase shift'
Syntax: cast 'phase shift' store
Syntax: cast 'phase shift' none

Phase shift allows a psion to shift their existence from one place to the
location they have stored in their memory using mind store.  The transfer is
instantaneous and most useful in emergencies.  You can store the location of
choice, or empty it using target of "none".

See Also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#477
-2 psion~ DREAMWALK~
DREAMWALK

Syntax: dreamwalk <victim>
        dreamwalk <omen/deathmare/dreamprobe/mindmelt>

Using their telepathic abilities the Psion is capable of tuning into a person's
dream and becoming part of it.  Manipulating the lucid state the dreamwalker can
then implant various dreams and nightmares. 

Once a particular dream has begun it will last for two one hour sessions. During
the dreamwalk the Psion is free to perform any actions including starting a new
dream to replace the current session. 

See also: HELP OMEN, DEATHMARE, DREAMPROBE, MINDMELT, TELEPATHY
~

#478
-1 PLAGUE POISON~
PLAGUE POISON

Syntax: cast 'plague' <target>
Syntax: cast 'poison' <target>
Syntax: commune 'plague' <target>
Syntax: commune 'poison' <target>

The plague spell infests the victim with a magical disease of great virulence,
sapping its strength and causing horrific suffering, possibly leading to death.
It is a risky spell to use, as the contagion can spread like wildfire if the
victim makes it to a populated area.

The poison spell infests the victim with a magical poison which reduces the 
victim's strength as well as hinder his ability to heal wounds naturally.  
However, this poison does not spread to those the victim comes in contact 
with, making it less risky than plague.
~

#479
-1 'POWERWORD KILL'~
'POWERWORD KILL'

Syntax: cast 'powerword kill' <target>

Necromancers have devised a spell to kill anyone by a simple point of a finger.
This spell carries the name of powerword kill.  By casting the spell, on a victim
who has been affected by death grasp, the caster has  a chance to kill the target
outright.  The effect of the spell is farther affected by the skill and level of
caster compared to his victim.

See also: DEATH GRASP
~

#480
-1 PRAYER~
PRAYER

Syntax: commune 'prayer'
Syntax: commune 'prayer' <target>

The mind is focused with the blessings of a prayer.  One's soul is more at
peace with itself, reducing the aggressiveness of the target, and increasing
the defenses.  While affected by a prayer, it is difficult to get worked up
or angered, but while in this serene peace of mind,it allows you to
concentrate better.
~

#481
-1 PROTECTION~
PROTECTION 

Syntax: cast 'protection'
Syntax: commune 'protection'

The protection spells reduce damage taken from attackers of the opposite path
of morals.  Those without a firm moral commitment does not receive protection
from this spell.  This spell may not be cast on others.
~

#482
-1 'PROTECTIVE SHIELD'~
'PROTECTIVE SHIELD'

Syntax: cast 'protective shield'
Syntax: commune 'protective shield'

This spell surrounds the caster with a shield of magical energy, preventing him
from being hit by opponents throwing their bodies against him.  However, this
shield does not protect the caster from other forms of blunt attacks such as
attacks by a mace.

See also: FORCE FIELD, BALANCE, IRON WILL
~

#483
-1 'HOLD PORTAL'~
Syntax: cast 'hold portal'

SEE ALSO: PORTAL  CLOSE PORTAL  ENTER PORTAL

Sorcerers can use the "hold portal" spell to prolong the existence of a
portal that has been previously called into being by either their own portal
spell or the portal spell of another sorcerer.
~

#484
-1 RAKE~
RAKE

Syntax: rake <primary/secondary>

Berserkers have the ability to rake the weapon of the opponent with such a
force, that the victim cannot attack with that weapon for the next round of
combat, until they have regain control of their weapon.  Typing rake without
any arguments will target the primary weapon by default.  

Typing 'rake secondary' will target the dual wielded weapon.
~

#485
-1 'RANGER STAFF'~
'RANGER STAFF'

Syntax: ranger staff

Rangers, being the master woodsmen, have the skill to carve a staff out of wood. 
The quality of the staff increases as the ranger gets higher in rank.
~

#486
-1 REFRESH~
REFRESH

Syntax: cast 'refresh'
Syntax: cast 'refresh' <target>
Syntax: com  'refresh'
Syntax: com  'refresh' <target>

The refresh spell magically replenishes physical energy of the affected
person.  This spell can be cast on all others as well as the caster himself, 
even to those who are extremely inexperienced or experienced in comparison 
to the caster.
~

#487
-1 'REMOVE CURSE'~
'REMOVE CURSE'

Syntax: commune 'remove curse' <object>
Syntax: commune 'remove curse' <person> <object>

The remove curse spell is able to remove a curse on an object carried by a
caster or target person.  If the caster's power if sufficient when compared
with the cure, it will be removed.  Some items are cursed with such power that
no mortal effort may counteract the curse.

NOTE: While this spell may not remove a curse placed on a person, the temple
healers are capable of performing this service for a price.
~

#488
-1 ROAR~
ROAR

Syntax: roar

A berserk can try to intimidate his opponent by letting out a primal roar that
shakes the ground they walk upon.  When the berserker is successful, the victim
will be temporarily weakened by lack of self confidence.  Roar can only be used
against those they are fighting.
~

#489
-1 SANCTUARY~
SANCTUARY

Syntax: cast 'sanctuary'
Syntax: cast 'sanctuary' <target>
Syntax: commune 'sanctuary'
Syntax: commune 'sanctuary' <target>

Shamans, healers, thaumaturgists, and paladins have the ability to grant
sanctuary to himself and those around him.  Healers, shamans, and paladins are
able to do so by communing to their gods while thaumaturgists have learned this
ability from their long time training with war spells.  This spell grants divine
protection upon those affected.  It has been known that a person affected can
take an extremely great amount of damage and leave barely scratched.
~

#490
-1 SHADOWFORM~
SHADOWFORM

Syntax: cast 'shadowform'

Illusionists can hide themselves in a blanket of distorted light that completely
hides their identity.  In this state, they are immune to all direct attacks from
other people, and most attacks from creatures.  However, an area attack will
bring them out of their shadowed state.  But, beware for there are certain
strong creatures in the realms that can see through this illusion.  Certain
guardians such as Cabal guardians, and other creatures that are supernaturally
strong cannot be fooled by these means. A wise illusionist will do well to
tread carefully in unknown territory.
~

#491
-2 vampire~ SHADOWSTALK~
SHADOWSTALK

Syntax: cast 'shadowstalk' <target>

When a vampire, has injected their Dark Gift into the shadows, the undead life
will be breathed into the darkness.  The shadow will rise and will be locked
onto the scent of the target of which it was called to consume.  Only the
victim of the shadow will be able to see and attack the shadow.  However, the
shadow's linesman is only limited to night, hence long-term tracking will not
be possible.
~

#492
-1 SHIELD~
SHIELD

Syntax: cast 'shield'
Syntax: cast 'shield' <target>
Syntax: commune 'shield'
Syntax: commune 'shield' <target>

The shield spell creates a magical shield around the caster which helps him to 
deflect some of the attacks thrown against him.  It doing so, it also helps the 
caster by deflecting the critical attacks so that if an attack does land, it 
does not land with as much force.
~

#493
-1 'SHOCKING GRASP'~
'SHOCKING GRASP'

Syntax: cast 'shocking grasp' <target>

This spell magically charges the caster's hands so that it delivers a shock as
the caster touches his opponents.  The attack is a lightning-based attack.
~

#494
-1 'SILENCE'~
Syntax: cast 'silence' <target>

The dark-knight guild has developed the silence spell.  This surrounds an 
opponent in a sound proof force, preventing them from speaking and hearing for 
several hours.  While silenced, the victim cannot speak, nor can he cast any 
spells, for vocal incantations are an integral part of casting a spell.
~

#495
-1 SLEEP~
Syntax: cast 'sleep' <target>

The sleep spell causes the victim to fall asleep for a few hours.  While under
the spell, the victim will not be able to wake up on his own accord, he would
only wake up if a physical wound is inflicted on him.  Necromancers, and psions
are the only professions who have ability to learn this spell.
~

#496
-1 'SOUL CAPTURE'~
'SOUL CAPTURE'

Syntax: cast 'soul capture' <target>

If a corpse of a character happens to be before a necromancer of sufficient 
mastery, the necromancer can collect the characters soul-feeding the dark mage
added health.  The soul is seen as a grayish shroud in which floats around the
necromancer.
~

#497
-1 STAKE~
STAKE

Syntax: stake <target>

Vampires hunters throughout the Ages have tried to develop the most efficient
way to slay vampires.  One such technique is to drive a stake through a
vampire's heart. Those vigilant enough to catch a vampire at their most
vulnerable, most were too frightened and fail to drive the stake into the
heart.  However, for those steadfast enough to hit their mark, the vampire
is dealt a devastating blow sometimes causing it to never wake.
~

#498
-1 'STONE SKIN'~
'STONE SKIN'

Syntax: cast 'stone skin'
Syntax: commune 'stone skin'

This spell magically turns the caster's skin as hard as stone, allowing the 
caster to take less damage from attacks as he normally would.  It is a spell 
learned only by only a few classes of mages.
~

#499
-1 'STRENGTH DAMNED'~
'STRENGTH DAMNED'

Syntax: cast 'strength damned' <target>

Targeting a zombie that the necromancer has raised from the dead, he/she can
restore the zombie to the power of its original. Because this requires the most
intense of dark magic's, the necromancer can only perform this feat once in a
long while.
~

#500
-1 'CLOSE PORTAL'~
Syntax:  cast 'close portal'

SEE ALSO:  PORTAL  HOLD PORTAL  ENTER PORTAL

Sorcerers can close a previously opened portal to disallow any one else following
or coming through a portal.  The sorcerers ability to close a portal is directly
related to their level versus the level of the sorcerer who originally cast the
portal spell.
~

#501
-1 SUMMON~
SUMMON

Syntax: cast 'summon' <target>
Syntax: commune 'summon' <target>

This spell summons a creatures from anywhere else in the realm to the location
of the caster.  It can also summon other people who near the caster to the
location of the caster.  Those who are of higher ranked are extremely difficult
to be summoned by a person of lower rank.  Those who are fighting may not be
summoned.
~

#502
-1 TELEPORT~
TELEPORT

Syntax: cast 'teleport'
Syntax: commune 'teleport'

The teleport spell randomly takes the caster from his current location to
another location somewhere else in the realm provided his is not in combat.
This spell is very useful to get away from those who are chasing the caster.
However, it does not guarantee the caster safety.  The caster may end up in a
worse predicament then he was.  While the user of this spell has a better
chance to avoid unpleasant encounters with increase in skill, the random
nature of this magic makes no assurances.
~

#503
-1 'DRUID GATE'~
DRUID GATE

Syntax: cast 'druid gate'
Syntax: commune 'druid gate'

The spell randomly takes the caster from his current location to another forest
room somewhere else in the realm provided his is not in combat.  This spell is
very useful to get away from those who are chasing the caster or quick return to
the forest.  However, it does not guarantee the caster safety.  The caster may
end up in a worse predicament then he was in even if the spell does prevent
transport to a location with creatures of higher rank then caster.
~

#504
-1 'VAMPIRIC TOUCH'~
'VAMPIRIC TOUCH'

Syntax: cast 'vampiric touch' <target>

On contact, the necromancer can drain its target of both vitality and mana not
only causing damage to the target but also transferring it onto him/herself in
a form of unholy healing spell.
~

#505
-1 VENTRILOQUATE~
VENTRILOQUATE

Syntax: ventriloquate <name> <message>

This spell throws the caster's voice, making it appear that some other object or
person in the room is saying the caster's message.  Victims who sees through the
spell will know that someone is using ventriloquism, but not who. Victims who
did not see through the spell will think that the object or person really did
say the caster's message.
~

#506
-1 VITALIZE~
VITALIZE

Syntax: commune 'vitalize'
Syntax: commune 'vitalize' <target>

Vitalize will increase the metabolism of the target, raising their healing rate
while they are standing.  The target will not be able to sleep peacefully since
his metabolism is so high.  While affected, the target will get hungry and
thirsty faster than usual.
~

#507
-1 WEAKEN~
WEAKEN

Syntax: cast 'weaken' <target>
Syntax: commune 'weaken' <target>

The weaken spell will drastically weaken the victim for several hours.  This
affect often causes the victim to drop their weapons, due to the lack of
strength to hold it.  As the caster rise up in rank, the affect of this spell
also becomes stronger, making the strength loss in the victim even more evident.
~

#508
-1 'WORD OF RECALL' 'GROUP RECALL'~
'WORD OF RECALL'

'GROUP RECALL'

Syntax: cast 'word of recall'
Syntax: cast 'word of recall' <target>
Syntax: commune 'word of recall'
Syntax: commune 'word of recall' <target>
Syntax: commune 'group recall'

This spell calls upon the gods of the realm to take the affected person from his
current location to the temple of his alignment in his hometown. The word of
recall spell can be cast during combat.  It can be casted on those who are
following the caster as well as the caster himself.  

GROUP RECALL casts word of recall on everyone in the group.
~

#509
-1 WRATH~
WRATH

Syntax: commune 'wrath' <target>

Paladins have the ability to call upon the gods of light to strike down the foes
of the caster with divine wrath.  This wrath is most effective against those who
walk in darkness and less effective against those who do not have a firm moral
commitment.  One should notice that this potent prayer quickly loses its power
against those seriously hurt or near death.

See also: HOLY WORD
~

#510
-1 'CONTINUAL LIGHT'~
CONTINUAL LIGHT

 A conjuration known only to a select few classes, this basic enchantment
will conjure a ball of shimmering light, inextinguishable by any means known
save destruction.  This ball of light will illuminate the wearer's
surroundings much as a torch would, while emitting no heat, and never
burning out. 
~

#511
-1 AMBUSH~
AMBUSH

Syntax: ambush <target>

This skill allows a ranger to deliver a surprising attack to his victim in the 
forest.  The ranger may execute the attack whether he is camouflaged or not.  
However, a camouflaged ambush has been known to inflict a more serious wound 
than a regular ambush.

See also CAMOUFLAGE
~

#512
-1 CAMP~
CAMP

Syntax: camp

Rangers are able to set up a comfortable resting place in the wilderness.  
Along with the wholesome fresh air and the healing powers of nature, they 
are able to put themselves into a deep meditated sleep.  This is a long 
term sleep however.  Those that wake up before they are fully rested will 
be set back instead.
~

#513
-1 ASSASSINATE~
ASSASSINATE

Syntax: assassinate <target>

Assasssins of high ranks may learn to kill with one hit.  The assassin must
STUDY the actions of the target he wishes to attempt to assassinate. If you
happen to fail in your attempt, the target knowing your intent will change
his behavior requiring you to study them again to even out the changes.

Note that you can use "assassinate" command to see your current chance to
assassinate.  Keep note that the better one's accuracy is, the higher your
chances will be to successfully assassinate one's target.

See also HELP Assassin
~

#514
-1 ALIAS~
ALIAS

Syntax: alias <alias> <commands>
	alias # <commands>
	alias rem <alias>
	alias rem #
	alias list

The Age of Mirlan features an easy to use alias system to allow you to setup
custom commands.  To turn aliases off/on use "autoalias" command.

HOW TO USE AN ALIAS: 
Simply type its name and hit <enter> key.  
Example (assuming 'ca' is a defined alias)  100mv> ca

CREATING NEW ALIAS:
To create a new alias simply type: "alias <aliasname> <commands>" 
Example: 
100mv> alias cw cast 'word of recall'	//Creates a new "cw" alias

CHANGING AN EXISTING ALIAS:
To change an alias you follow same procedure as when creating a new one.  
When changing an alias you can also use its position on the "alias show" 
list rather then name.  

Example:
100mv> alias qrec quaff recall		//Creates an alias.
100mv> alias qrec quaff recall potion	//replaces with new commands.
100mv> alias 1 quaff big recall		//replaces first alias on the list.

REMOVING AN ALIAS:
To remove an alias type "alias rem" followed by its name or number.

Example: 
100mv> alias rem qrec		//removes an alias called "qrec".
100mv> alias rem 1		//removes the topmost alias on the list.

LISTING CURRENT ALIASES:
To list all your aliases simply use "alias list".

See also: HELP ALIAS ADVANCED

~

#515
-1 WEAPON WEAPONS~
WEAPONS

Your skill in a particular weapon type determines how well you fight using that
weapon, and how much damage you will cause on successful hit.  Proficiency in
exotic weapons is determined by your rank.  The following weapon types are in
existence:

Exotic, Sword, Dagger, Spear, Mace, Axe, Flail, Whip, Polearm, Staff 

You may consult detailed help files for each of the weapon types.
~

#516
-1 BACKSTAB~
BACKSTAB

Syntax: backstab <target>

This skill gives thieves the ability to plant a dagger into the backs of their
opponent, striking them by surprise as well as inflicting a massive amount of
pain.  This surprise attack is only effective to victims who are in excellent
condition.  Opponents of a much greater size may not be backstabbed. 

See also: DUAL BACKSTAB
~

#517
-1 BARKSKIN~
BARKSKIN

Syntax: barkskin

Rangers have the ability, through intense concentration, to harden their 
skin like the bark of a tree.  This allows them to receive less damage when 
attacked by foes.  Rangers improve this ability with each new rank gained.
~

#518
-1 BASH~
BASH

Syntax: bash <target>

Some talented fighters may learn the ability to throw themselves against 
their opponents, knocking them off of their feet.  By doing so, the fighter
may stun their opponents, rendering them immobile for a short duration of time.  
Factors such as size and dexterity affect the effectiveness of a bash.

See Also: TRIP, BODYSLAM, GRAPPLE, AIR THRASH
~

#519
-1 'BEAST CALL'~
'BEAST CALL'

Syntax: beastcall
	  beastcall <raven/wyvern/displacer/leopard/mammoth>

Rangers, with their familiarity to the forests and the animals within, have 
the ability to call wild animals to their aid.  Many animals have been known 
to come to the aid of rangers offering aid in combat or as steeds.  The higher
the rank of a ranger, the more powerful an animal he can call.

A ranger may attempt to call upon a specific animal, however if his attempts
are not good enough to lure the chosen beasts, no other animal will be
summoned.

See also: HELP MOUNT
~

#520
-1 BERSERK~
BERSERK

Syntax: berserk

This ability allows talented fighters to enter into a wild trance, with their 
pulses racing and the whole body consumed with rage.  While in this state, these 
fighters are known to be able to strike harder in his frenzy, but consequently 
also let down his defenses more than usual.
~

#521
-1 BLACKJACK~
BLACKJACK

Syntax: blackjack <target>

Thieves are able to strike at the head of their opponents with a portable, 
concealed, lead filled sack.  This will cause the victim to fall unconscious 
due to the blow.  They will be unable to wake up for some time, allowing thieves 
to pick their victim's pockets clean.
~

#522
-1 'BLANKET OF DARKNESS'~
'BLANKET OF DARKNESS'

Syntax: commune 'blanket of darkness'

A dark mist seeps through the room, completely blocking all sunlight and
visibility from outside.  While inside, you are also isolated from the
surrounding environment.  You will not be able to teleport or scan out, 
and no one will be able to teleport or scan in.  Only by foot, can you 
leave this blanket of evil and darkness.
~

#523
-1 'BLIND FIGHTING'~
'BLIND FIGHTING'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Supreme fighters are able to learn the ability to fight while blinded.  They
will be able to use his other senses to compensate for the temporary lose of
their sight, leaving them at almost no disadvantage from the blindness.~

#524
-1 'ENTER PORTAL'~
Syntax: enter portal

SEE ALSO:  CLOSE PORTAL  PORTAL  OPEN PORTAL

Once the living energy of a portal is called into being the sorcerer and
nearly everyone else can enter the portal by using the "enter portal" command.
Again, objects and gold can usually be passed through these beings of arcane
nature.  Not all things may how ever i.e. some fantastic beasts and monsters
may not be able to enter the portal as the portal is alive and may not allow
such beings to traverse through it.
~

#525
-1 BODYSLAM~
BODYSLAM

Syntax: bodyslam <target>

Berserkers are known to throw their bodies violently flying toward their
opponents.  This maneuver may result in knocking the victim senseless, stunned
and momentarily paralyzed.  Some factors that affect the success of a body slam
are size and dexterity.

See also: BASH, TRIP, AIR THRASH
~

#526
-2 vampire~ BURROW~
BURROW

Syntax: burrow

Utilizing potent sorcery and their ability for Transformation the kindred is 
capable of seeking shelter from the sun below the ground, only to rise as 
mere smoke when night has fallen.  While underground, they remain unseen to 
all that pass by, safe from the hunters the vampire can remain sheltered in 
such way, even if it requires immense concentration and ability. If you are 
damaged in any way, or you can no longer maintain your mist form you will be 
forced to the surface.
~

#527
-1 BUTCHER~
BUTCHER

Syntax: butcher corpse

Rangers, with their extent outdoors training, have learned to cut uneatable 
carcasses into eatable steaks.  Rangers can improve their butchering ability 
and can carve out more eatable meats from the carcasses, thus the portions of 
their steaks get bigger as time goes on.
~

#528
45 DEATH DYING REINCARNATION REVNANT~
When a character dies several things happen.  If it is your last in the world
of Mirlan, Morgorin may not take you so readily.  

When an exceptional character of level 45 or greater dies there one of two
things may happen.  You may end up a ghost, tied to the area in which you died
or you may end up due to circumstances become a Revnant.
 
Upon becoming a ghost:

If you die your last death you can become a ghost.  If you do, you will be tied
to the area in which you passed away.  You will be able to interact with other
characters in your area and walk around in your ghostly state.  You will not be
able to affect the world.  

However, in this state, you can be reincarnated.  This is something that is not
always desirable as you will come back as a level one character, in a class
predetermined by the gods.  
 
You could theoretically come back of opposite alignment and of a race that is
opposite than the one you were previously.  All dependant upon the class and
alignment that reincarnated you.

If you come back as a Revnant.  Things can be very interesting.  You will be
transformed into a killing machine with one purpose.  To avenge your death!
The person (player characters only) that murdered you will be your only quarry. 

You will be able to defend yourself against others but not attack them save for
the murderer of your person. This can be good and bad.

If you succeed in slaying your killer as a Revnant, you will be granted your
life back.  If you fail, Morgorin shall take you and you are forever more dead.

When you die permanently your name and a short history of your character will
be written in the books of history.
~

#529
-1 CAMOUFLAGE~
CAMOUFLAGE

Syntax: camouflage

Rangers have the ability to hide themselves amongst the bushes of the forests.
They will be disguised from most of their opponents by doing so.  While in a
camouflaged state, rangers may significantly increase the damage done by ambush
over their regular ambush.

See also: AMBUSH
~

#530
-1 CHARGE~
CHARGE

Syntax: charge <target>

Warriors, berserkers, and paladins have learned the ability to start a fight by
charging at their opponents with their weapons. The weapons that they may charge
with are swords, polearms, and spears.
~

#531
-1 TELEPATH TELEPATHY~
TELEPATHY

Certain races and beings in Mirlan communicate by broadcasting their thoughts
directly into another brain.  This mode of speech requires mental effort to use
and is unaffected by its receiver's waking state, or spells such as silence.  
~

#532
-1 CIRCLE 'CIRCLE SIDESTEP'~
CIRCLE

Syntax: circle <target>
	circle

Thieves with their stealth and speed have developed the ability to circle around
and strike at their opponents while the opponent is engaged in a fight with
another. By taking advantage of this disposition, thieves can unleash
devastating blows at their unsuspecting victim.  If the thief has managed to
doublesheath a dagger, he will also attempt to draw it forth and use it to best
of his ability.  Daggers of high quality, light and easy to handle as they are,
prove especially useful for this purpose.
~

#533
-1 CLEAVE~
CLEAVE

Syntax: cleave <target>

Dark-Knights have the ability to start of a fighting unleashing a vigorous blow
to their opponents.  Sometimes, when struck perfectly, the dark-knight causes
such intense damage that the victim may pass out in shock.  The heaviertwo-
handed weapons lend themselves more to this task then a light dagger.
~

#534
-1 COUNTER~
COUNTER

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

From their intense training in fighting skills, warriors and paladins have 
developed the reflexes and ability to turn their opponent's initiating attack 
against themselves.  With this ability, warriors and paladins can give back to 
the aggressor the blow he dealt and then some.
~

#535
-1 CUTPURSE~
CUTPURSE

Syntax: cutpurse <target>

During combat, the wily thief can cut open his opponent's money pouch with a 
deft slice of his dagger.  This will spill some of its contents onto the ground, 
allowing those nearby (including the thief himself) to freely take the loose 
gold.  The opponent will continue to lose money for several hours until he 
can finally mend the ruined container.  The opponent may or may not notice 
that his purse has been slashed.
~

#536
-2 vampire~ 'DARK METAMORPHOSIS'~
'DARK METAMORPHOSIS'

Syntax: cast 'dark metamorphosis'

A spell accidentally stumbled upon by a chemist experimenting with turning steel 
into gold, adopted by the vampires to aide in their hunt for blood.  This spell 
alters the property of the vampire's weapon, causing it to hum in tune with the 
vampire's metabolic rhythms.  The weapon in the vampire's hand, will actually 
become a physical extension of the vampire.  The metamorphic nature of the 
weapon allows it to absorb the blood gushing from the wound it inflicts, and 
passing it on to the vampire.
~

#537
-1 'DETECT HIDDEN'~
'DETECT HIDDEN'

Syntax: detect hidden

Being masters of concealment, thieves not only have the ability to find shelter
and hide out of sight of unsuspecting victims, but they also have trained their
eyes to be sharp to pick out those using same art as they.  They can see those
hidden away in the shadows that a regular person may not see.

This skill also allows them to spot traps setup around the land.  The ability
to spot the trap is directly affected by the trap's level compared to one's
skill in this skill.
~

#538
-1 'DEMONIC VISAGE'~
'DEMONIC VISAGE'

Syntax: commune 'demonic visage'
Syntax: commune 'demonic visage' <target>

The communer of demonic visage rips off their face to reveal a ghastly and 
frightening sight of demons and devils.  Startling the victim with such 
horrifying images, they might drop their weapon into their inventory from 
the shock.  They cannot be startled again while the images of the demons 
still linger in their mind.
~

#539
-1 DIRT 'DIRT KICKING'~
DIRT 'DIRT KICKING'

Syntax: dirt <target>

Consider by some to be a cowardly skill, dirt kicking gives the clever combatant
a chance to blind his opponent by casting dirt into his eyes.  The blindness
does not last long, but can provide an edge in combat.  Dexterity helps in
hitting or avoiding a dirt kick.  Warriors, thieves, rangers, berserkers, and
dark-knights may learn to kick dirt.
~

#540
-1 DISARM~
DISARM

Syntax: disarm

Disarm is a somewhat showy and unreliable skill, designed to relieve your 
opponent of his weapon.  The best possible chance of disarming occurs when 
you are skilled both your own and your opponent's weapon.  Warriors, thieves, 
rangers, and dark-knights may learn to disarm their opponents.  Some weapons
are inherently better at this then others.

See also: WEAPON
~

#541
-1 DISGUISE~
DISGUISE

Syntax: disguise <class>

Skilled thieves and bards, in an attempt to fool the masses, may disguise 
themselves to look like another person.  For a time the they may walk the 
lands as someone they are not.  While so disguised they may attempt to fool 
the guild guardians and attempt to sneak into the guild of profession they
are disguised as.  If they do not want to be in disguise any longer, he may 
remove it by disguising himself again.
~

#542
-1 'DIVINE RETRIBUTION'~
'DIVINE RETRIBUTION'

Syntax: commune 'divine retribution'

The healer can call upon the wrath of the heavens, to form a offensive barrier
around the communer.  Any none light-walkers that attempts to attack the
communer while he/she is protected by the wrath will receive damage from the
offensive barrier.  With each square that the communer moves, the barrier will
reduce in duration, causing it to dissipate prematurely.
~

#543
-1 DODGE~
DODGE

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

The ability to dodge improves the character's natural agility to the point 
where many blows will miss the target.  The chance of dodging is also affected 
by the dexterity of the attacker and the target.  Warriors, thieves, rangers, 
dark-knights, paladins and berserkers may learn to dodge in combat.
~

#544
-1 'DUAL BACKSTAB'~
'DUAL BACKSTAB'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Experienced thieves may learn the ability to stab with two daggers, inflicting
enormous damage to their opponents.  A thief has to be wielding two daggers in
order to dual backstab.

See also; BACK STAB
~

#545
-1 'FIRST PARRY' 'SECOND PARRY'~
'FIRST PARRY' 'SECOND PARRY'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

The ability to parry multiple times.
~

#546
-1 'DUAL PARRY'~
'DUAL PARRY'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Being masters of combat, warriors and rangers have the ability to learn dual 
parry.  Dual parry allows them to parry with their secondary weapon, as well
as their primary weapon.  This improves their offensive capabilities by giving
them greater incentive to dual wield without losing any of their defensive
abilities of holding a shield.  

~

#547
-1 'DUAL WIELD'~
'DUAL WIELD'

Syntax: dual <weapon>

Because all creatures of Mirlan only have two hands, a person may choose two of
the following: to wield a primary weapon, a secondary weapon, wear a shield, or
hold a held item.  Only some competent fighters may learn to wield two weapons
at one time.  While dual wielding two weapons, the fighter may attack with both
weapons, giving them extra attacks against their foes.  However, the secondary
weapon must be lighter than the primary weapon, for no one is equally strong
and competent with both of their hands to be able to wield two weapons of the
same weight and be effective. Two light weapons may be dual wielded despite not
significant weight difference.
~

#548
-2 vampire~ ECSTACY~
ECSTACY

Syntax: cast 'ecstacy' <target>

If successful, the target will feel immense pleasure, lost in a world where all 
their fantasies come true.  They will lose all contact with reality, lose all 
will to do anything, until the spell wears off, or physical pain snaps them back 
to reality. 
~

#549
-1 LEADERSHIP~
LEADERSHIP

Syntax: automatic

When sighted upon the battlefield the cabal generals my use their natural skills
at leadership to improve their troop's morale and make them more effective in
battle.  Only the most skilled leader in the room is used. 

See also: HELP CABALS
~

#550
-1 ENFEEBLEMENT~
ENFEEBLEMENT

Syntax: commune 'enfeeblement' <target>

Sapping the strength from the target's legs, this effect reduces the physical
energy of the target.  In most cases this is only a temporary set back as there
is no long term damage done to the legs.  However, in extreme cases it is
possible to collapse the legs of the target, causing movement extremely arduous
on the legs. 
~

#551
-1 'ENHANCED DAMAGE'~
'ENHANCED DAMAGE'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Warriors, thieves, rangers, berserkers, dark-knights, and paladins can become
skilled enough in combat that they are able to inflict more damage than regular
attacks.  Enhanced damage is checked for with each hit, although with a low
skill, the chance of receiving a bonus is very low indeed. Warriors, thieves,
rangers, berserkers, dark-knights, and paladins may learn to fight with
enhanced damage.
~

#552
-1 ESUNA~
ESUNA

Syntax: commune 'esuna'
Syntax: commune 'esuna' <target>

This is the highest form of curative supplications.  The healing power of 
sunlight is channeled through the target, capable of removing all ailments 
plaguing the target.  Only healers have the ability to commune such a powerful
healing supplications at a much higher rank than the other curative 
supplications.
~

#553
-1 'FAST HEALING'~
'FAST HEALING'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

The fast healing skill improves wound-healing rates, whether walking, resting, 
or sleeping.  It is the general toughness and stamina of a person. Fast healing 
is checked every tick, and it is possible for it to fail.  All class may learn
this skill, but mages find it very difficult to master, due to their bookish
lifestyle.
~

#554
-1 GAG~
GAG

Syntax: gag <victim>

An useful addition to the thieves repertoire of underhanded skills. 
A successfully gagged victim cannot call for help.  Since a thief's wonderland
is in the city, a cry for help could foil his plans by alerting unwanted
officials to the scene.  By applying a gag to an unconscious victim, a master
thief can mug his victim without fear of being caught.

See also 'HELP BLACKJACK'.
~

#555
-1 GRAPPLE~
GRAPPLE

Syntax: grapple

Grapple is a skill used to hold opponents.  They utilizing this skill with
dexterity and quickness one can maneuver around their opponents and throw them
to the ground, causing their opponents to be temporarily stunned.  Although it
does not inflict a great amount of damage, skilled characters can use this to
their advantage to prevent their prey from fleeing.

See also: BASH, TRIP, BODYSLAM
~

#556
-1 HAGGLE~
HAGGLE

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Haggling is an indispensable skill to the trader.  It allows a character 
to match wits with a merchant, seeking to get a better price for merchandise, 
or to buy at the lowest possible cost.  Unfortunately, most merchants are 
already very skilled at haggling, so the untrained adventurer had best guard 
his treasure closely.
~

#557
-1 'HAND TO HAND'~
'HAND TO HAND'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Hand to hand combat is a rare skill in the realm.  Learning this style of
fighting gives the player a weapon even when disarmed -- bare hands.  Trained
hand to hand experts are far more effective than many swordsmen are.  Warriors,
thieves, rangers, berserkers, dark-knights, and paladins may learn to fight
with their hands.  
~

#558
-1 'HEALER STAFF'~
'HEALER STAFF'

Syntax: healer staff

Healers have the ability to create a staff out of pure energy, capable of
healing the user when it is wielded.  The quality of the staff increases as
the healer gets higher in rank.
~

#559
-1 HERB~
HERB

Syntax: herb
Syntax: herb <target>

With their extensive training in the forests, rangers have the ability to pick
out benign herbs that aids the healing process.  There herbs allows rangers to
heal their own wounds as well as wounds of their friends.  As rangers rise up in
their guild ranks, they also better their skill in distinguishing herbs and be
able to choose out more effective herbs, allowing them to heal wounds with herbs
more effectively.
~

#560
-1 HIDE SNEAK~
HIDE SNEAK

Syntax: hide
Syntax: sneak

Hide and sneak are similar skills, both related to remaining undetected.  Hide
has a very high chance of success, but only works for as long as the character
remains stationary or sneaking.  As well-trained as a person may be, he or she
would still need to take some time looking for a hiding place.  Sneak may be
used when moving (including to sneak by monsters), but has a lower chance of
success.  It is very tiring to move great distances while sneaking.  Thieves
may learn how to hide and sneak.  
~

#561
-1 INSECT SWARM~
INSECT SWARM

Syntax: insect swarm <target>

A ranger my call upon nature and bring forth a swarm of insects down upon their
opponent.  The swarm lured by the rangers call will return to harm the victim
again and again.  Some classes are unaffected by swarms of insects.  Hiding for
cover in water may also help you survive the deadly swarm.
~

#562
-1 'KEEN SIGHT'~
'KEEN SIGHT'

Syntax: keen sight

Because rangers are the masters of forests, not only are they able to camouflage
themselves in the forests, but they can also see those who are using the art of
camouflage to hide themselves away in the forests.  Keen sight is the ability
that rangers have which allows them to detect others who are camouflaged.
~

#563
-1 KICK 'DOUBLE KICK'~
KICK 'DOUBLE KICK'

Syntax: kick

Kicking allows the adventurer to receive an extra attack in combat, a
powerful kick.  However, a failed kick may throw an unwary fighter off balance.
Warriors, Sorcerers, thieves, clerics, rangers and dark-knights may learn this 
kicking skill.
~

#564
-1 'LAY ON HANDS'~
'LAY ON HANDS'

Syntax: lay <target>

Lay on hands is the ability developed by paladins to heal another.  They may
commune with their gods to impart healing affects to those in need.  Because of
its wearying procedure, lay on hands can only be used very infrequently.
~

#565
-1 LORE~
LORE

Syntax: lore <object>

Lore is a general skill, consisting of knowledge of myths and legends.
Use of the lore skill gives a chance of obtaining information on an object, 
concerning its power and uses.  While those with great intellect and wisdom
have natural affinity for this skill, a lucky fool has been known to give 
better readings then a learned Mage.  Bards due to their extensive worldly
knowledge always get a perfect lore reading.  When using the lore skill you
will get a general idea of the object's origins.
~

#566
-1 MANA CHARGE~
MANA CHARGE

Syntax: mana <weapon> <mana amount>

Thaumaturgists have found a way to weave magic into a weapon they hold. 
In doing this the magic contained will be of benefit to the thaumaturgist 
in spell casting.  There are dangers that come with such a task.  
If the thaumaturgist does not have the mental strength to cast the spell, 
the magic in the weapon becomes unstable and flares with great force 
upon the thaumaturgist.
~

#567
-1 'MALFORM WEAPON' MALFORM~
'MALFORM WEAPON'

Syntax: cast 'malform weapon' <object>

In the blackest shadows, surrounded by the power of the darkest of gods, 
a Dark Knight may attempt to cast the most vile of spells upon his weapon. 
It is rumored that when successful this evil enchantment calls the attention 
of the evil gods of Mirlan, thus breathing malicious spirit into the target 
item. 

From then on as the Dark Knight kills with the object, the spirit within will 
feed on each corpse it creates passing the souls it consumes on to its master 
deity. When enough of such dark gifts are received the deity often blesses the
Dark Knight by further increasing the spirits abilities. Yet until the 
intelligence has grown strong enough, it will slowly weaken if not on its 
master's person as it slowly bleeds dark powers. 
~

#568
-1 MASQUERADE MASQUE~
'MASQUERADE'

Syntax: masquerade

The Kindred have exited for time immeasurable. Stalking the society unnoticed, 
their true nature undiscovered they play the deadly game of deception and 
control. Through those ages uncounted, the Elders have strove to control every
aspect of society that is their sustenance. This ancient tradition of deception
and domination has been given name: Masquerade. 
~

#569
-1 MEDITATION~
MEDITATION

Syntax: AUTOMATIC
Syntax: meditate

This skill is similar to fast healing, but relies on the concentration and
mantras to increase mana recovery when the character is sleeping or resting.
Those devoted to casting spells tends to learn to meditate a lot more easily
than those who are devoted to physical combat.
~

#570
-1 perk perks~
PERK PERKS

Age of Mirlan allows you to choose detailed characteristics such as build,
hair color, starting weapon and character perks.  This is not required but
may help you flesh out your character further.  Most of the selectable perks
below will provide your character benefits, albeit with a sacrifice in
others.  Below lists the selectable perks groups in which the perks will be
listed with a summarized explanation of their effects.  Be careful when
choosing, however.  Once you have decided on which perk, if any, you will
select, your choice is irrevocable. 

See Also:  
ADDICTION PERKS, PHYSICAL PERKS, SIZE PERKS, 
SOCIAL PERKS, SPIRITUAL PERKS, TRAINING PERKS
~

#571
-1 PARRY~
PARRY

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

If at first you fail to dodge, block it.  Parry is useful for deflecting 
attacks, and is successful more often than dodge.  Parry requires a weapon 
for full success, the hand-to-hand skill may also be used.  The best chance
of parrying occurs when the defender is skilled in both his and his opponent's
weapon type.  All classes may learn to parry with their weapons.
~

#572
-1 PEEK~
PEEK

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Thieves are learned the ability to peek into a person's inventory.  It is useful
for seeing what that person is carrying, thus he may have a better idea about
what to steal from that person.  Those skilled with this skill are also able to
spot hidden sheathes on those they look upon.
~

#573
-1 'PICK LOCK'~
'PICK LOCK'

Syntax: pick door
Syntax: pick <direction>

Lock picking is one of the prime skills of a thief, allowing them to gain access
to many secured areas.  Lock picking chances are improved by intelligence, and
hindered by the difficulty of the lock. Thieves and bards may learn how to pick
locks.
~

#574
-1 'size perks'~
SIZE PERKS  

These perks are categorized as perks that indicate your height, weight, and
maybe even your build.  Possible effects could be increased carrying capacity,
reduced food intake, and the like. 

Overweight:
You are used to carrying more weight, but are less agile. 

Underweight:
You can count your ribs with closed eyes and feast on a small snack. 

Tall:
You've sprouted taller then most.  Your long legs allow for extra movement. 

Short:
Your smaller figure is easier to conceal in shadows or foliage. 

See Also:  PERKS
~

#575
-1 'QUIET MOVEMENT'~
'QUIET MOVEMENT'

Syntax: automatic

An automatic skill that allows the proficient ranger to move in the forest
without making any noise.  This makes his room leaving and entering
undetectable.  Also, if the ranger is camouflaged, quiet movement (or sneak)
will allow him to move about while staying covered.  Without it, the noise made
when he moves will blow his cover.  However, quiet movement only works in the
forest since a ranger is out of his element elsewhere. 
~

#576
-1 RAGE~
RAGE

Syntax: rage

Berserker, with their rash approach to combat, are known to be overwhelmed 
by madness during combat.  During this madness, they  are able to withstand 
more damage than they normally would, and can inflict a massive amount of 
damage at the same time.  They also have an immense thirst to fight that 
is only quenched at the death of a victim.  Thus, if his original opponent 
flees, he would attack the next person he sees.  Once out of this state of 
madness, the berserker returns to his original state.  He can no longer 
sustain the extraordinary amount of damage he can before, thus if he had
withstand more than his regular damage, he would go into shock and pass into 
unconsciousness.  Only the natural health of a berserker can revive him at 
this point.  Those that are naturally more healthy, may eventually recover. 

When born, the berserker's rage is unfocused and only offers a small fraction
of its capability until the berserker chooses a focus for his deadly tide of
rage through Path Focus.  At this point his choice will determine the style
and ability of his rage and further fruition into more skills late in his
career.

See also: RELAX, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#577
-1 RECALL /~
RECALL /

Syntax: recall
Syntax: /

The gods show favor to the very young travelers and look favorably upon them
when they are in trouble.  Thus, those who have yet to attain their 11th rank
may pray to the gods to be divinely transported back to their hometown.  After
attaining the 11th rank, the gods deems that person as experienced and would no
 help them in such fashion.  '/' is a shortcut for recall.
~

#578
-1 REGENERATION~
REGENERATION

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Berserkers with their focus on physical training for combat have attained the 
ability to heal faster than those of other professions.  It is an enhanced form 
of fast healing that is only possessed by berserkers. 
~

#579
-1 RELAX~
RELAX

Syntax: relax

While berserkers are known for going into a state of madness, they have also 
developed an ability to try to compensate their temper.  Relax allows them to
calm down and snap out of that state of madness.  Unless the berserker has 
chosen the path of anger it has a very small chance of succeeding, although at
times, it's worth a try.  Those berserkers at higher ranks and have gathered 
more experience in their traveling would have a better chance at controlling 
their madness than those who are young and inexperienced. 

Those berserkers whom are skilled in the path of anger will always relax,
even during combat (a feat beyond the skill of other paths), and take only 
a fraction of the timer required for their brethren

See also RAGE, PATH FOCUS, RAGE FOCUS
~

#580
-1 RESCUE~
RESCUE

Syntax: rescue <target>

When in combat, a warrior or a paladin may rescue their friends who are
in trouble.  Rescue allows you to intercede in combat, protecting weaker
characters from bodily harm.  Success in rescuing depends on the skill
rating, as well as a comparison of level, dexterity, and speed between 
the character and the target.  Only warriors and paladins may learn to 
rescue their friends.
~

#581
-1 RIPOSTE~
RIPOSTE

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

With their extensive training in combat skills, warriors have the ability to
evade their opponent's attack, look for an opening in their opponent's defenses
and land a minor attack on their opponent.  The skill riposte is that ability. 
~

#582
-1 SCOUT~
SCOUT

syntax: scout <direction>

Scouting allows the player to scan further than usually possible.  The range of
scouting varies for each attempt.  If scouting failed, you just scan as far as
your normally can.
~

#583
-1 SCROLLS STAVES WANDS ~
SCROLLS STAVES WANDS

Certain magical items may have its powers invoked if trained properly.  In
inexperienced hands, the power of the item may fail to be invoked, even
resulting in the destruction of the magical item. One may "recite" scrolls,
"brandish" staves, and "zap" with wands.
~

#584
-1 'SECOND ATTACK' 'THIRD ATTACK' 'FOURTH ATTACK'~
'SECOND ATTACK' 'THIRD ATTACK' 'FOURTH ATTACK'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

After long periods of training, some characters may learn the ability to 
strike at their opponents more rapidly.  With the abilities learned, the 
characters may have a chance to strike out a second, third, or fourth attack 
in a round of battle, although it is not guaranteed that the attacks will be 
performed in every round of battle.  The more advanced of these abilities are 
granted to those classes that have devoted their training to the art of combat.
~

#585
-1 'SHIELD BLOCK'~
'SHIELD BLOCK'

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Shield block is a rather fancy name for the art of parrying with a shield. 
Characters with no shield block skill will not be able to defend themselves 
well with a shield.  Warriors, clerics, rangers, berserkers, dark-knights, 
and paladins may learn shield block.  Beware, it is hard to block attacks 
by flails and whips with a shield.  Some weapons may split shields in half. 
~

#586
-1 'SHIELD CLEAVE'~
'SHIELD CLEAVE'

Syntax: shieldcleave

Berserkers have the ability to put all their strength into a swing, purposely
aiming to break their opponent's shield.  This ability allows the berserker to
take away the ability of the opponent to use shield block due to the opponent's
lack of a shield.  Larger heavier weapons are more apt to cleave a shield then
a mere whip.
~

#587
-1 'SHIELD DISARM'~
'SHIELD DISARM'

Syntax: shielddisarm

Some classes have learned the ability to disarm an opponent's shield away from
their hands.  With this, they can shake their opponent's hold on their shield
and cause them to drop it.  Warriors, paladins, and dark-knights can learn this
ability.  
~

#588
-2 vampire~ 'SOUL STEAL'~
'SOUL STEAL'

Syntax: cast 'soul steal' <corpse>

Much like the counterpart of the spell, soul capture, the vampire can drain the
soul of the deceased victim and devour it to enhanced their mystical powers.
The body with the remaining life force drained will wither away soon afterwards.
~

#589
-1 'SPIRIT SHIELD'~
'SPIRIT SHIELD'

Syntax: commune 'spirit shield'

Available only to the highest-ranking healers, the communer can create a shield
made from the holy spirits dwelling in the light.  No free hand is needed to
hold the shield, since it floats near the communer's arm.  This leaves the hands
of the communer free to complete other tasks.
~

#590
-1 STEAL~
STEAL

Syntax: steal <object> <target>

Theft is the defining skill of the thief, and is only available to that class.
It allows items to be stolen from the inventory of monsters and characters.  But
beware, shopkeepers guard their merchandise carefully, and attempting to steal
from a character may get you in trouble with the law enforcers of the realm if
you are caught.

See also BLACKJACK, PRY, PLANT
~

#591
60 STRANGLE~
STRANGLE

Syntax: strangle <target>

Ninjas have the ability to maneuver around their opponents and strangle them.  
They use their quickness to run around their opponents and grab their necks, 
putting the victim to sleep.  This will render the victim unconscious for a 
few hours, leaving the ninjas to do whatever he pleases with his victim.

~

#592
-1 SWING~
SWING

Syntax: swing

Swings, a skill learned only by berserkers, allows the person to swing his 
weapon wildly, attacking everyone that is attacking him.  This skill is 
automatically engaged when the person starts raging and enters a state of 
madness. 
~

#593
-1 TAME~
TAME

Syntax: tame <target>

Rangers are able to employ their knowledge of creatures in the realm to
find the best tactics that could calm the creature down.  They know that 
many times a creature attacks because of fear or misunderstanding.  Thus,
even if a creature is in an angry rage, rangers may be able to tame them
so that a peaceful solution can be found.  It has been known that even
in the middle of fights, beasts have been tamed by the skilled ranger.
~

#594
-1 THROW~
THROW

Syntax: throw <item>	(ranger)
	throw <target>
	throw 

Rangers and thieves are skilled and dextrous enough with their
hands, that they are accurate in throwing an object at a target.  Items
that can be thrown are created through edgecraft skill, with exception of
rangers who can throw most objects and bards have such expertise 
in throwing that there are certain held items they can repeatedly throw. 
Many of the thrown objects may be envenomed or otherwise poisoned for
more deadly effect.  The item MUST be in the inventory as easy access
is needed in heat of combat.

NOTE:  Highly skilled thieves can use their double sheath skill
for a more potent and deadly uses of daggers and shurikens.

See also: DOUBLESHEATH
~

#595
-2 vampire~ THRUST~
THRUST

Syntax: thrust <target>

The ability of a vampire to knock a target flying by extending an open palm
and thrusting a powerful force toward the target.  If the hit connects, the
victim will be temporarily stunned.
~

#596
-2 vampire~ 'TWILIGHT SHIFT'~
'TWILIGHT SHIFT'

Syntax: ca 'twilight shift' <target>

This spell allows the vampire to Facilitate  short distance travels.  The body
of the vampire scatters into numerous bats, and they fly off toward the
destination.  There is a small chance the bats will be confused about where the
target is, and might end up in a random room altogether.  Once at the
destination, the bats will combine and once again, form back into the vampire.
~

#597
-1 TRANCE~
TRANCE

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Mages learn the ability to concentrate more than the average person, allowing 
them to regain mental energy faster than the average person.  This ability is 
an enhanced form of meditation.
~

#598
-1 TRIP~
TRIP

Syntax: trip <target>

Trip is a somewhat dastardly attack, and involves using any one of a number of
methods to bring your opponent down to the ground.  Tripping large creatures is
generally not a good idea, and agile ones will find the attack easy to avoid.
Warriors, thieves, berserkers and dark-knights may learn to trip their opponents.
~

#599
-1 TRIPWIRE 'TRIP WIRE'~
TRIP WIRE

Given enough time to prepare, a skilled thief is able to lay an undetectable 
trap to ensnare his victims.  By placing thin wires near the ground the thief 
sets a trap which will occupy their victim just long enough for a thief to steal 
and flee....or whatever else strikes their fancy.  Although the trap is set off 
automatically when unsuspecting victim(s) enter the room, the thief cannot leave 
the room else the unattended trap becomes ineffective. It has occurred on 
occasions however, that if a thief does not have luck on their side, trip wires
have been known to snap in the thiefs face.
~

#600
60 VANISH~
VANISH

Syntax: vanish

Ninjas have been known hide small packs of dusts in their garment.  One of 
these packs of dusts that they carry creates a smoke screen with which clouds 
up the room for the moment, allowing them to flee out of fights and leave 
trouble if they ever runs into it.  This ability allows them to disappear and
reappear randomly in the same area that they were in.
~

#601
-1 WARCRY~
WARCRY

Syntax: warcry

Warriors, rangers, berserkers have the ability to shout out a battle cry
before they enter a fight.  It is a moral booster that allows them to feel 
more confident, be more focused on the fight, and receive divine blessing. 
~

#602
60 ANATOMY~
ANATOMY

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Monks may study the anatomies of general races, thus learning the weak 
spots of each.  Monks may learn this from mere mobs (up to 2x level), yet 
sparring with a living opponent will result in far faster progress.  As they 
gain more knowledge about one's body, they are able to inflict more damage.  
This is checked with each hit, with the success depending on the general anatomy 
skill.  The amount of bonus depends upon the knowledge in that specific anatomy.  
This knowledge also aids the monk in performing any stunning or special blows.
~

#603
60 MEDITATE~
MEDITATE

Syntax: meditate

Monks gain their power in a different way than most spell casters.  
While the mana of others increase every tick, a monk's mana trickles 
away slowly.  The only way for monks to gain mana is to meditate or 
stay in their monastery.  Doing both will increases the gain even more.  
However, monks do not gain hit points during meditation unless they are 
in specific areas of their monastery or have fast healing.  While 
meditating, the monks are cut out from the outside world, just like 
if they were sleeping.
~

#604
60 PRAYER BEADS~
PRAYER BEADS

Syntax: beads <mana amount between 50 and 550>

Prayer beads are the only objects that monks can hold without hindering
their unarmed fighting ability.  Monks can control the amount of power 
used in making their prayer beads.  The more power used, the bigger the 
benefits that come from holding these beads.  There are rumors that when 
the monks are near death, they may resort to using this string of beads to 
strangle their opponents.
~

#605
60 'MARTIAL ARTS' 'KICKBOXING'~
MARTIAL ARTS BEGINNER
MARTIAL ARTS ADVANCED
KICKBOXING BEGINNER
KICKBOXING ADVANCED

Syntax: AUTOMATIC

Trained in the art of unarmed combat, monks can perform martial arts and
kickboxing moves while not wielding a weapon.  One hand must be free for
beginners martial arts, and both hands must be free for advanced martial
arts.  While the damage done by these skills is not as great as that done 
by a skilled swordsman, they can be executed in a flurry of attacks.

~

#606
60 REVIVE~
REVIVE

Syntax: revive

This command is used by monks to revive themselves from self induced catalepsy.
~

#607
60 AURA~
AURA

Syntax: aura

Because monks are so devoted to their gods through meditation, they
receive a gift of being surrounded by a blindingly bright aura.  This
aura blankets them in warmth and safety.
~

#608
-1 'SENSE MOTION'~
'SENSE MOTION'

Syntax: sense

This skill makes it possible to sense the presence of people moving around,
making it hard to sneak past an alert user of this skill.  It also allows one
to sense presence of living things in the area though one can only distinguish
a certain number of life forms thus making it useless in crowded areas.

Ferals have an innate ability to sense motion.
~

#609
60 HEALING~
HEALING

Syntax: healing

Through deep and heavy meditation, monks can undergo a healing session
which partly heals injuries and cures ailments such as poison and
blindness.  Because this is a wearying procedure, monks end up famished
and can only heal themselves once a day.
~

#610
60 ENCUMBRANCE~
ENCUMBRANCE

Because monks rely on their quickness in combat, if they wear heavy
equipment, certain skills will be hampered.  Here is the list of encumbrances.

body part       skill affected          weight restriction
arms            martial arts beginner   10
legs            kickboxing beginner     10
hands           martial arts advanced   5
head            sense, resistance       5
feet            kickboxing advanced     10
body            speed                   5
waist           speed                   10
torso           extra attack            15

~

#611
-2 psion~ OMEN~
OMEN

Syntax: dreamwalk <omen>

Once you tuned into a victim's dream using dreamwalk ability the dreamwalker
may plunge the victim into a potent nightmare composed of the dreamer's
greatest fears.  The waves of dread and fear these dreams create are so potent
that the skills of the victim begin to suffer until in the extreme they enter a
full blown state of hysteria.

See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#612
-2 psion~ 'MIND THRUST'~
MIND THRUST		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'mind thrust' <victim>

A basic spell in the psion arsenal, mind thrust uses kinetic and psionic energy
to damage and potentially weaken the victim's mental defenses.  The damage is
mental in nature and thus will ignore thaumaturgist's mana shield. 

See Also: Help MIND BLAST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND DISRUPTION
~

#613
-2 psion~ '1ST CIRCLE' '2ND CIRCLE' '3RD CIRCLE' '4TH CIRCLE' '5TH CIRCLE' 
'6TH CIRCLE' 'PSI CIRCLE' 'PSI CIRCLES' 'PSIONICSTS CIRCLES' PSIONICIST CIRCLE'~
PSION CIRCLES 

 Each spell in the Psion arsenal corresponds to one of six circles of power.
Spells for rank 1 to 9 are of 1st circle, then increasing by 1 circle of power
every 10 ranks.  Hence a 29th level spell would belong in the 3rd circle, and
50th level spell in 6th.

Psionicsts specialize in their spell choice starting at 3rd Circle of power.

See also: HELP MEMORY SPELLS, MEMORIZE, FORGET
~

#614
-1 DISPLACEMENT~
DISPLACEMENT

Syntax: cast displacement

Psions are able to altar the path photons travel, allowing them to make their
own image appear up to 3 feet away from them, making them hard to hit.
~

#615
-2 psion~ PHOTON~
PHOTON

Syntax: cast 'photon'

One of the first tricks a psion learns is the ability to add or remove photons
from the air.  Using this ability to their advantage a skilled psion is able to
set up one way walls that block all light given out by his own light source.
Shielded in such way, they can remain invisible and hidden from sight of unaided
eyes.
~

#616
-1 AWAKEN~
AWAKEN

Syntax: cast awaken <target>

Using their telepathic abilities, psions are able to cause people to wake up, even
if they aren't in the same room.
~

#617
-1 'MENTAL DRAIN'~
'MENTAL DRAIN'		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'mental drain' <target>

Psions learn mental drain as part of their training.  This spell allows the
caster to drain a portion of their victim's mental energy.  This energy is then
absorbed by the psion for their own use.
~

#618
-1 'IRON WILL'~
'IRON WILL'

Syntax: cast 'iron will'

By controlling certain parts of their brains, psions can force their wills to
be artificially stronger, making them resistance to stunning blows.  They will
still receive the damage, however.

See also: PROTECTIVE SHIELD, FORCE FIELD, BALANCE
~

#619
-2 psion~ 'BODY WEAPONRY'~
BODY WEAPONRY

Syntax: cast 'body weaponry' 

A skilled psionicsts is able to manipulate the basic elements of their own hands
and imbue them with powerful elemental energies.  As a result their hands become
deadly weapons of significant force.
~

#620
-1 'EGO WHIP'~
'EGO WHIP'

Syntax: cast 'ego whip' <target>

While too much of an ego is looked down upon, it is still a necessity to
success, especially in fighting.  Psions can play with a person's ego, causing
them to doubt themselves and become less effective.  The effects of this spell
are cumulative and it will reduce mental defenses of its victim.  This spell's
power is proportional to its target's defenses.
~

#621
-1 'TELE LOCK'~
'TELE LOCK'		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'tele lock' <target>

With intense concentration, psions are able to force the cells of a person to
resist unnatural travel, such as teleporting and recalling.  While this can be
used offensively to keep someone from escaping, it also has a defensive use of
causing someone to be unsummonable.
~

#622
-2 psion~ 'ENHANCE ARMOR'~
'ENHANCE ARMOR'

Syntax: cast 'enhance armor' <object>

Psions can manipulate the atoms in inanimate objects as well, such as armor.
In this case, they can rearrange the atoms to make the armor stronger. This is
not an enchantment like the enchanting armor spell.  It is a physical change, not
a magical addition, thus it can only be done once successful.

Be forewarned, though, for if the psion is not careful, he/she may ruin the
armor, or even cause it to overheat and melt.
~

#623
-1 'THERE NOT THERE'~
'THERE NOT THERE'

Syntax: cast 'there not there' <object>

Psions are able to place inanimate objects into the fourth dimension, which
is time.  Any object in Psion's inventory maybe so transposed, and will remain
hidden from sight of all.  The only way to detect the small temporal variations
that the phased object creates is through the Detect Aura spell.
~

#624
-2 psion~ blink~
BLINK

Syntax: cast 'blink'

An Illusionist is capable of utilizing the art of short-range teleporation
to their advantage in melee.  By constantly shifting around, they can 'blink'
right out of harm's way.  This allows the Illusionist to avoid many otherwise
fatal blows.  

 See also: HELP ILLUSION 
~

#625
-2 psion~ levitate~
LEVITATE

Syntax: cast 'levitate'

  By controlling the air molecules under their feet, Psionicsts are able to
literally walk on air which becomes as hard as steel under their feet.  The
effect of this spell are easily extended to anyone grouped with the caster.
~

#626
-2 psion~ PYRAMID 'PYRAMID OF FORCE'~
'PYRAMID OF FORCE'

Syntax: cast 'pyramid of force'

Psions are able to encase themselves in an ethereal pyramid.  This pyramid
dampens the effects of damaging spells and attacks.
~

#627
-1 TERROR 'FIELD OF FEAR'~
TERROR 'FIELD OF FEAR'

Syntax: cast terror <target>
Syntax: cast 'field of fear'

By reading the minds of their opponents, psions are able to figure out what
their phobias are and make them appear, causing the victim to flee in terror.

When psions grow more powerful, they can instill this terror-inducing power
into whole room, causing people inside to become so instilled with the fear
inducing paranoia.  Those so affected find their skill with weapons and other
combat skills suffering while their moral is torn apart by the fearful images.
~

#628
-1 ECTOPLASM~
ECTOPLASM

Syntax: cast ectoplasm

By reaching into the beyond, psions can conjure up ectoplasm.  Ectoplasm
naturally occurs in two forms, vapor and solid.  They randomly switch back
and forth, with each form having their own special identity.
~

#629
-2 psion~ HYPNOSIS~
HYPNOSIS               AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast hypnosis <target> 

Similar to the sleep spell this puts the victim under the psion's control
who forces the victim into deep sleep ready for further manipulation in case
of psionicsts studied in arts of telepathy.  There exists a single limitation 
in spell: You can't hypnotize people who are smarter than you, and any sensation
of pain or discomfort will snap the victim out of the hypnotic sleep. 

See Also: HELP OMEN, DEATHMARE, MINDMELT, DREAMPROBE
~

#630
-1 'CONTROL FLAMES'~
'CONTROL FLAMES'

Syntax: cast 'control flames' <target>

If either the psion or their victim is using a light source, the psion can cause
that light source to produce a ball of fire that hits the victim. However, the
damage is much greater if the source of the fireball is from the victim's own
light source.
~

#631
-1 FORGET~
FORGET

Syntax: cast forget <target>

By controlling the synapses in a victim's brain, a psion can cause them to 
forget their spells for a very short amount of time.
~

#632
-1 'MENTAL BARRIER'~
MENTAL BARRIER

Syntax: cast 'mental barrier'

By isolating and protecting their minds from the outside world psions can
render mental-based attacks relatively ineffective in terms of damage as
well as success rate.
~

#633
-1 CLAIRVOYANCE~
CLAIRVOYANCE

Syntax: cast clairvoyance <target>

Using telepathic abilities the caster can search the targets mind revealing
not only what they wear, but at times are able to gleam the most intricate
details about the victim.
~

#634
60 'CHII BOLT'~
STORING THE CHII

Syntax: store

Before the monk can release the chii bolt, they must first store up their 
chii.  First the need to have chii circulating through their body before 
they can store it.  The chii can be stored up to 3 different levels.

RELEASING THE CHII
Syntax: bolt
Syntax: bolt <target>

Each level of stored chii has different effects when released on a target.
A level 1 chii will knock the target to the ground, temporarily disabling 
the target.  A level 2 chii can be released for damage, but if kept stored.
A level 2 chii will cause the monk's attacks to become magical in nature.  
A level 3 chii shoots out as a barrier, and will cancel most barrier type
spells it collides into.
~

#635
-1 'DOUBLE GRIP'~
DOUBLE GRIP

Syntax: double
Syntax: double <weapon>

Many professions have the ability to wield weapons using both hands.  Warriors
however, in their endeavor to develop differing techniques stumbled upon the
advantage of using only one weapon.  Grasping a weapon with both hands allows
a warrior to use the weapon with greater stability, obtaining greater control.

While double gripping a weapon, a warrior would be able to do more damage than
he/she would using only one hand while making them harder to disarm.  Due to
the nature of this technique only certain types of weapon may be gripped with
two hands.  Staffs and polearms which already require the use of both hands can
still apply this technique to gain greater stability.  Using double grip without
a syntax will double grip the weapon you are wielding.  Double with a name and
you'll wield the weapon from your inventory to wield and doublegrip. 

Note that while double gripping a weapon you still require the "two handed"
skill to control your weapon efficiently.

See also: WEAPON, TWO HANDED
~

#636
-1 HEROISM~
HEROISM

Being champions of all that is good, paladins have been known to venture 
forth on heroic quests alone, against great odds.  As preparation for such 
dangerous undertakings, the paladin can beseech the heavens for their divine 
favor in their heroic journey.  When paladins are filled with heroism, he will 
have divine wrath and good fortune for an entire day.  However, he cannot
follow or lead anyone else for its duration, for such quests are meant to be
undertaken alone.

While purified by heroism, paladins can commune wrath with greater power 
than they are normally capable of.  Also, their endurance is bolstered 
tremendously, enabling them to travel great distances in pursuit of their
opponents without showing normal signs of fatigue.  Lastly, paladins affected
by heroism have been known to begin combat with a charge attack when they 
defend someone using the rescue skill.
~

#637
-2 vampire~ DARK RITUAL~
DARK RITUAL

Syntax: dark

Since the first Night-walkers roamed the land, their overwhelming power was
always shattered by the coming of dawn.  Through the ages various members of
the Clan have sought a way to remedy this cursed condition.  It is believed
that it will make a vampire impervious to the affects of the burning sun. 
~

#638
-1 UNDEAD UNLIFE~
HELP UNDEAD UNLIFE

   
See also: HELP UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS, MORGORIN, DEEZIL, VAMPIRE
~

#639
60 DECOY~
DECOY

Syntax: decoy

Speed and deception are important tools that ninjas rely on in their profession.
Under the cover of night a skilled ninja is able to quickly dispatch a decoy
confusing his enemy.  When an unsuspecting foe mistakenly attacks the decoy, a
small mechanism is setoff containing a nasty surprise. 
~

#640
-1 ENTOMB~
ENTOMB

Syntax: entomb <target>

Necromancers can place their zombies in an inanimate state which the necro can
return later to entomb.  This prevents their zombies from being summoned away or
prevents zombies from following them all over.
~

#641
-1 'OFFHAND DISARM'~
'OFFHAND DISARM'

Syntax: 'offhand disarm'

Due to their extensive training in the use of weapons, warriors can attempt to
work around their opponent's primary weapon to knock away their secondary weapon
on their offhand.  This skill is similar to the disarm skill, and subject to the
same restrictions.  Offhand disarms can only be attempted on targets which are
dual wielding.

See also: DISARM, SHIELD DISARM
~

#642
-1 'CURE INSOMNIA'~
'CURE INSOMNIA'

Syntax: commune 'cure insomnia'
Syntax: commune 'cure insomnia' <target>

By calling upon the gods, healers can put an end to the torments of insomnia
placed upon either themselves or others.  With the remove of the harmful
insomnia, the target will be able to sleep and regenerate mana normally.
~

#643
-1 'CURE DYSENTERY'~
'CURE DYSENTERY'

Syntax: commune 'cure dysentery'
Syntax: commune 'cure dysentery' <target>

This spell will restore normalcy to either the caster or the target's
digestive system, so that food can be eaten without being expelled and
so that nourishment can be taken as normal.  Only healers have the skill
to cure dysentery.
~

#644
-1 'RESTORE FAITH'~
'RESTORE FAITH'

Syntax: commune 'restore faith' <target>

With an act of faith, healers can remove the doubts of another due to the
blasphemy spell, and allow them to commune to their gods again.  Note that
healers cannot restore their own faith, for they cannot commune while their
minds are filled with disbelief about their religion.
~

#645
-1 'REMOVE HYSTERIA'~
'REMOVE HYSTERIA'

Syntax: commune 'remove hysteria'
Syntax: commune 'remove hysteria' <target>

Using this spell, healers can bring peace to troubled minds, and calm those who
are in panic from hysteria.  Once the hysteria is removed, the target can cast
spells and flee as well as he could before he was made hysterical.
~

#646
-1 HEX~
HEX

Syntax: commune 'hex' <target>

By their familiarity with various shamanistic religions, shamans can place a
hex on their victims to bring them bad luck. This spell cannot be removed by
any mortal means, save death. Even healers cannot remedy the effects of this
curse.
~

#647
-1 'UNHOLY STRENGTH'~
UNHOLY STRENGTH

Syntax: cast 'unholy strength'
        cast 'unholy strength' amplify

Before the rise of guilds in Mirlan, the Eternal Army ruled the lands by
combining rigorous physical and magical training with a strong central
leadership that drew from the combined powers of all its members. The unholy
strength spell is a vestige of that era, before the coming of Light shattered
the army. It allows dark-knights to draw from their own life-force to strengthen
themselves physically for a short time. A mana upkeep is requires to sustain
this state of heightened power.

Casting unholy strength when one is already under its affect increases the power
of the spell. However, this will also increase its upkeep.  The spell's physical
limit is determined by the level of the caster.  One can also amplify the effect
of the spell to make it last longer, but the upkeep will be correspondingly
increased as well.

At the end of the unholy strength, or when the dark-knight cannot support its
upkeep, the caster will feel drained from the effects of the spell. Note that it
is much more dangerous to enter this state from failing the upkeep than when the
spell expires naturally.
~

#648
-1 'VIRTUOUS LIGHT'~
VIRTUOUS LIGHT

Syntax: commune 'virtuous light'

As a special blessing for their chosen champions, the gods will protect the
caster of this spell with the Light of Virtue. Not only does this strengthen
the caster's defenses, but it will also cause them to be better favored by
Pajument. Only paladins are able to cast this spell, and its blessings can
only be bestowed upon the paladin who casted it.
~

#649
-1 'THE GREATER RAIDER MOUNTAINS' 'GREATER RAIDER MOUNTAINS'~
GREATER RAIDER MOUNTAINS

These sharp peaks form the northern border of Palinor as well as the Western
Realms.  Ages ago the dwarven kingdom of Muzara lay somewhere within its range
though the location has been forgotten by men.  Muzara grew wealthy on the
large deposits of gold and gemstones they found under the mountains and
numerous dwarven clans still work mines here today.  The Greater Raiders 
stretch on to the north for hundreds of miles and link up with the Lesser
Raiders, fencing a great bay that is the home of the Esterians. 
~

#650
-1 BLESS~
'BLESS'

syntax: commune 'bless'
syntax: commune 'bless' <target>

Some races may commune to their gods, granting divine blessing to whom all are
humble and pious.  The spell will focus the minds of those blessed, improving
their ability to fight and resist against spells.  The bless spell can only be
cast on those with similar paths of alignments.  The god you chose to follow in
life directly affects the blessing you will receive.
~

#651
-1 'DIVINE INTERVENTION'~
'DIVINE INTERVENTION'

syntax: commune 'divine intervention'

One who is of the cleric way of life may call upon his/her god to bring forth
their power before all.  Since the powers of the gods are a mighty force, they
can't be controlled by the cleric.  Some of the consequences of calling upon
this power may be unwanted by the cleric, depending on what god you follow.
~

#652
-1 'BLESS ARMS'~
'BLESS ARMS'

syntax: commune 'bless arms' <object>

A cleric may seek the aid of their god to bless an object that the cleric
holds dear to their arsenal.  Thus blessed object is not only easier and 
more effective in combat but also has powers beneficial to the cleric.
~

#653
-1 'RAY OF TRUTH'~
'RAY OF TRUTH'

syntax: commune 'ray of truth' <target>

As the truth of targets trespasses strikes home, the victim will feel 
great remorse and pain for all his wrongdoings.  This pain and remorse 
from his past, is the source of the power in the clerics ray of light.  
~

#654
-1 MINISTER~
'MINISTER'

syntax: commune 'minister' <target>

A skilled cleric may place a magical sermon in their opponents mind.   
Once the opponent hears the sermon, they are unable to get it out of 
their mind, and constantly think about it.  Since they are focusing on 
the sermon, they will often loose concentration and mental strength.
~

#655
-1 PORTAL~
'PORTAL'

Syntax: commune 'portal'
Syntax: commune 'portal' marker

A skilled cleric can conjure a magical portal that they may travel to, from 
most parts of the land.  To travel by portal, the cleric must place an exit 
point by placing a marker in the room they wish to travel to.  When the cleric 
sets a new marker, the old one is removed.  Travel by a portal, will always 
transport you to your current marker.
~

#656
-1 GATE~
'GATE'

Syntax: commune 'gate' <victim>

A skilled healer can conjure a magical gate through which they can instantly
travel to a target creatures location.  Stepping through such shimmering gate
they may cross the whole land in a single step.
~

#657
-1 extra~
'SPELL TURNING'

syntax: commune 'spell turning'

A skilled cleric may place a reflective shield around him/herself.  When the
arcane force of a spell passes through the shield, it may be reflected back
to its source.  The spell is then returned back to the one who first attempted 
it.  The magical upkeep for such a spell is quite tedious to the cleric, yet 
beneficial for their troubles. 
~

#658
60 MONK MONKS~
MONK MONKS 

Monks are ascetics who learn their skills at a monastery instead of a
guild.  Monks must practice rigorous mental and physical training and
discipline to achieve their powers.  Although they perform incredible
physical and mental feats, they cannot cast spells.  They receive their
powers through heavy meditation.  Monks are guardians of knowledge and are
also masters of unarmed combat.  Most monks shun weapons as the last resort
of the weak.  Because monks rely on their quickness, they can not wear heavy
clothing.  Also, due to their extensive training monks excel beyond most
mortals in their skill in hand to hand fighting, surpassing normal
boundaries.  Monks are also able to stay the killing blow to their opponent,
instead granting them mercy.

 See also:
MEDITATE, ENCUMBRANCE, EMPOWERMENT, STANCE, OFFENSIVE, DEFENSIVE, MERCY.
~

#659
-1 HEADBUTT~
Syntax: headbutt

From their brute style of fighting, berserkers have long since utilize their 
heads as part of their arsenal in combat.  They have been known to hit their 
opponents' heads with their own head, causing a temporary dizzying affect to 
the victim. While dizzied, the victim would be rendered too uncoordinated to 
cast spells. In some cases, the force is so great the protective shield of an 
opponent is shattered under the blow.
~

#660
-1 'WEAPON CLEAVE'~
Syntax: weaponcleave

Skilled berserkers have the ability to put all their power into a swing, 
purposely aiming to break their opponent's weapon.  This ability allows the
berserker to  render his opponent weaponless, standing helpless to take his
beating.  If a berserker is holding a weapon with two hands, he can apply twice
the power into a cleave.  
~

#661
-1 PANIC~
Since a berserker is hanging on by a thin thread in battle, the berserker may be 
overcome by panic when they cannot see.  During this panic the berserker may act 
unpredictably until his panic subsides.  Panic is something berserkers have no 
control over, and is a result of walking that line between insanity and sanity.  
This panic anxiety is a force of massive proportion to the berserker.
~

#662
-1 'MIND LINK'~
Syntax: stalk <target>

Syntax: control leopard
Syntax: break

Once rangers have gained sufficient knowledge of the forest and their 
inhabitants, they are able to learn a skill called mind link.   This 
ability allows the ranger to better communicate with the beasts that 
he has called to his aid.  By exploiting the abilities of these beasts 
they will be able to better hunt and survive in the realms.  However, 
since the connection between the ranger and his beast is so strong there 
might be unforeseen repercussions. 

'Stalk <target>' 

This allows the raven to fly into the room of the target, and the  
ranger will be able to see the room through the eyes of the raven.

'Control leopard'  

This allows the ranger to take over all functions of a leopard, 
allowing ranger to become leopard.  However, this leaves the body 
vulnerable and unprotected.  Also, if the ranger does not return to 
the body within six ticks as shown by the affect of mind link, the 
body will cease all life support, taking the mind with it.

'Break'  Allows the ranger to return to his body.

With mind link, other animals have extra abilities enabled. Displacer 
beasts will sacrifice themselves in place of their master while being 
summoned.  Mammoths will sometimes take hits in place of their master.
~

#663
-1 'PATH OF DECEIT'~
'PATH OF DECEIT'

syntax: commune 'path of deceit' <target>

As the deceit of an evil cleric passes forth, a powerful evil aura surrounds
the target suffocating them in the evil of the caster.  The more sinister and
evil the cleric's past, the more powerful is the resulting effect.
~

#664
-1 BLUR~
'BLUR'

syntax: cast 'blur'

Sorcerers have the ability to alter the image of themselves as it appears to
their opponents.  This spell will blur their own image to their opponents,
causing their opponents to miss on occasion and generally make them harder to
be hit by their opponents.
~

#665
-1 FORCE FIELD 'FORCE FIELD' ~
'FORCE FIELD'

syntax: cast 'force field'

For Sorcerers, force field is a protective shield like spell that encases the
caster in flexible force field that absorbs any bashing attacks and converts
the force of the bash into a softer, diluted impact.

See also: PROTECTIVE SHIELD, BALANCE
~

#666
-1 'COLOUR SPRAY'~
'COLOUR SPRAY'

syntax: cast 'colour spray' <target>

Sorcerers have learned the ability to cast colour spray.  This is a  spell that
creates a colorful bolt of light against the victim, inflicting damage upon the
victim and possibly blinding the victim with the magnificent display of light.
~

#667
-1 SHATTER~
'SHATTER'

syntax: cast 'shatter' <target>

A necromancer can summon negative energy to be welled up inside  a targets body 
then causing a minor explosion within...doing damage to the victim. Depending on 
where force is most concentrated at the amount of damage and after effects will 
vary.
~

#668
-1 'TERRA SHIELD'~
'TERRA SHIELD'

syntax: cast 'terra shield'

A skilled Sorcerer can create a sentient wall of ground around him which 
can block weapon attacks in combat.  The spell can only be cast on room which 
there is earth to be moved and dispelled if caster moves.  It is rumored that
powerful and skilled enough Sorcerer can breathe actual intelligence in 
ground around him, creating a powerful mobile ally for his defense.
This powerful enchantment requires significant upkeep as time passes.
~

#669
-1 'PRISMATIC SPRAY'~
'PRISMATIC SPRAY'

syntax: cast 'prismatic spray' <target>

A spell in the Sorcerer arsenal that shoots a burst of color from the hands 
of the caster to the target.  A random color will be casted every time, and 
each color has a different effect.
~

#670
-1 'LOCALIZE GRAVITY'~
'LOCALIZE GRAVITY' 

syntax: cast 'localize gravity [primary/secondary]'

A skilled Sorcerer may generate a force from themselves, that focuses their 
center of gravity to a more focal point.  This point coincides with the center 
of gravity the earth has, and magnifies the force.   This intense force can 
render an opponent's weapons and items to heavy, forcing them from his hands 
to the ground.
~

#671
-1 RUST~
'RUST'

syntax: cast 'rust' <target>

A Sorcerer may call upon the forces of nature to speed up the oxidation 
process of metal.  When a Sorcerer casts this on a foe, their armor or weapon
may become rusty, making it less durable than before causing the victims combat
performance to suffer accordingly.
~

#672
-1 'AIR SHIELD'~
'AIR SHIELD'                  

syntax: cast 'air shield'     

When a Sorcerer casts air shield, a layer of thick air surrounds his body.  
This layer of air helps absorb all non-magical damage, offering excellent 
protection to the traveler.
~

#673
-1 TERRAIN~
'TERRAIN'

syntax: cast 'terrain' <target>

A Sorcerer can make the target see the terrain as a completely meaningless 
collection of stimuli instead of the usual environmental type.
~

#674
-1 BLADES~
'BLADES'

syntax: cast 'blades'

For Sorcerers, this spell gives them much needed attacks to assist them in 
battle.  The Sorcerer creates a pair of ghostly scythes to rotate around him 
doing slashing damage when in combat.  Since the deadly blades rotate around
the Sorcerer, there is a small chance to deflect incoming weapon attacks.
This powerful enchantment requires significant upkeep as time passes.
~

#675
-1 FLASHFIRE~
'FLASHFIRE'

syntax: cast 'flashfire' <target>

A Sorcerer can create a bright flash of light that can temporarily blind 
all those around him.  The effect if successful until the victim's eyes can 
adjust to the flash.
~

#676
-1 SHARPMETAL~
'SHARPMETAL'

syntax: cast 'sharpmetal' <target>         

When a Sorcerer uses sharpmetal, they conjure a mass of superheated metal 
shards, and send the stream of deadly metal flying towards their enemies.  
Being able to direct the spell in such way, the caster can then selectively
pick his targets only hitting those in combat with him or his group mates.
Note that different shaped shards may cause different damage, and that each
target increases the cost of spell accordingly.
~

#677
-1 'PLUMBUM MANUS'~
'PLUMBUM MANUS'

syntax: cast 'plumbum manus' 

A skilled Sorcerer may create a standing field of increased gravity around
themselves.  When in combat, the Sorcerer's opponents may find their hands and 
feet to gain the weight of lead as the very gravity turns against them.  With 
the heavy burden of their limbs, the simple task of doing battle becomes harder 
with the added weight.  This powerful enchantment requires small upkeep.
~

#678
-1 'METEOR SWARM'~
'METEOR SWARM'

syntax: cast 'meteor swarm'

A Sorcerer may call forth to the heavens and summon fiery rocks, guiding them
towards himself and slamming them down in the vicinity of the room he stands.
Since the Sorcerer has no control over the rocks, they could hit anyone near 
or no one.  The number and size of the rocks summoned is directly affected by 
casters rank and power.  While the group mates of the caster are protected, the
caster himself is not.  The only known way to prevent damage to the summoner is
known to Sorcerers who erect powerful force fields to negate the damage.
~

#679
-1 SEAR~
'SEAR'

syntax: cast 'sear' <target>

A skilled Sorcerer can gather sunlight into a more focused ray and direct it 
to an opponent in a searing deadly beam.  Since little to no sunlight can be
found indoors and in dark areas, a Sorcerer can't gather the light in such 
places.  In some cases the light ray may be so intense, that it may leave the 
opponent blind for extended amount of time.
~

#680
-1 'DANCING BLADE'~
'DANCING BLADE'

syntax: cast 'dancing blade' <weapon>

Dancing blade allows a skilled Sorcerer to gain an attack through eldritching 
a weapon with its own life force.  Only weapons with blades may be giving such 
force. As a result of this enchantment, the eldritch weapon may attack a target 
through its own will.  The weapon will rise out of inventory upon combat and 
begin attacking as if it were possessed.  After the battle is over, the
enchanted weapon will return to the inventory of the Sorcerer. This powerful
enchantment requires continuous upkeep.
~

#681
-1 MANALOCK~
'MANALOCK'

syntax: cast 'manalock'

Manalock is a very valuable spells for Sorcerers.  While the manalock stands
it will automatically counter any attempt to dispel the owners spells.  Note 
that such powerful warding not only consumes mana each time it protects you,
but it also requires a continuous upkeep.  
~

#682
-1 'REFLECTIVE SHIELD'~
'REFLECTIVE SHIELD' 

syntax: cast 'reflective shield'

A Sorcerer may surround himself in a shield that can absorb a portion of all
non-magical attacks and reflect it back to the opponent.  Due to its nature the
shield not only absorbs non magical damage but also partially shields against
heavy kinetic blows such as bash and bodyslam, greatly reducing the effects of
those attacks.  The shield will retain some of the force absorbed and with 
enough energy may grow exited and emit powerful pulses of energy.  Thus the
Sorcerer may gain an additional attack at cost of considerable upkeep.

See also: BASH, BODYSLAM, FORCE FIELD
~

#683
-1 'HOLY HANDS'~
'HOLY HANDS'

syntax: commune 'holy hands' 

A skilled cleric will call upon his god to grant a part of their power into his
hands.  If granted, the clerics hands become powerful weapons and any weapon 
they are holding, is removed.  Under the duration of this spell, the cleric
cannot wield a weapon due to the holy power coursing through his palms.
~

#684
-1 'SPELL TURNING'~
'SPELL TURNING'

syntax: commune 'spell turning'

A skilled cleric can surround himself in a shield that may reflect a spell that 
is cast upon them.  The spell is then returned back to the one who first 
attempted it.  The magical upkeep for such a spell is quite tedious to the
cleric, yet beneficial for their troubles. 
~

#685
-1 'THUNDERCLAP'~
THUNDERCLAP

syntax: cast 'thunderclap' <target>

Creating powerful explosion in close proximity to targets head/ears the
Sorcerer may temporally stun and disorient their target. When trying to head
north, the target may be heading east because of the noise.  Those sensitive
to noise may find themselves deafened by the mighty thunderclap.
~

#686
-1 'ISOLATE'~
'ISOLATE'

syntax: commune isolate <target>

Isolate is a spell used by clerics to split off a target from a group or split 
of followers from leader.  The main purpose of isolate is to disburse charmed 
mobs, so you can focus upon the master.
~

#687
-1 'TURN UNDEAD'~
TURN UNDEAD 

syntax: commune 'turn undead'

Clerics and paladins have the power to force away certain monsters that are
"undead.  Those of holy faith can attempt to strike at that source of energy
that places fear of the communers god, in the target.  This fear may cause it
to flee in terror and be hampered in battle or magical defense.
~

#688
-1 'DISPEL UNDEAD'~
'DISPEL UNDEAD'

syntax: commune 'dispel undead' <target>

Clerics have this offensive spell in their repertoire, as a part of their
priestly duty to ward off the undead.  This spell uses holy power to sever the
targets link to the dark power causing great damage to the target.
~

#689
60 'CRANE STANCE' CRANE~
CRANE STANCE

Syntax: crane

The crane stance symbolizes the swiftness and extension of the crane.
While imitating the crane, this enables the monk to attack with higher
accuracy and precision.  Power is sacrificed into mobility, which enhances 
the swiftness of the attacks.  Heavy equipment hinders the swift movements 
of the crane.  In order to be as the crane, you must empowered in the 
offensive.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE
~

#690
60 OFFENSIVE OFFENSE~
'OFFENSIVE'

Offensive is the state a monk achieves when they wish to focus more 
on offense in battle.  While in this state, a monk can do certain 
stances to help them become a better offensive fighter, as well as 
deliver a powerful stunning blow called chakera strike.  To achieve 
this state, a monk must empower	offense.

See also:
EMPOWER, TIGER, CRANE, DRAGON, MONKEY, CHII BOLT, AIR THRASH
~

#691
60 DEFENSIVE  DEFENSE~
'DEFENSIVE'

Defensive is the state a monk achieves when they wish to focus
more on defense in battle.  While in this state, a monk can do 
certain stances to help them become a better defensive fighter,
as well as use second parry.  To achieve this state, a monk must 
empower defense.

See also:
EMPOWER, HORSE, AURA, CATALEPSY, BALANCE, DRUNKEN, MANTIS
~

#692
60 'PREYING MANTIS' MANTIS~
PREYING MANTIS

Syntax: mantis

The preying mantis is an unique stance being which it is the only stance
that is allowed with the others.  The preying mantis prepares the monk
to counterattack certain moves done upon the monk.  The monk will reverse 
the first move done by the attacker back on them.  To be as the preying 
mantis, you must empower your defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE
~

#693
60 'TIGER STANCE' TIGER~
TIGER STANCE

Syntax: tiger

The tiger stance symbolizes the strength and power of the tiger.  While
in this stance, the monk imitates the strength and ferocity of the tiger, 
and attacks with powerful strokes and kicks.  Concentrating on the offensive, 
the monk neglects his defensive.  Heavy equipment hinders the powerful 
movements of the tiger stance.  To be as the tiger, you must empower your 
offenses.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#694
60 'HORSE STANCE' HORSE~
HORSE STANCE

syntax: horse

The horse stance symbolizes the endurance and stability of the horse.
Emphasizing on defense and endurance, the horse stance increases the
monk's resistance to harm.  The horse stance also allows the monk
to control their mind to resist harm, poison, and disease.  In some 
cases, the monk may reverse any attack back to the origin, but only 
with a fraction of the force.  The horse stance requires mental 
concentration so heavy equipment on the head will distract the monk.  
To be as the horse, a monk must empower their defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#695
60 BALANCE~
BALANCE

syntax: AUTOMATIC

Monks have a superb sense of balance through their awesome control of 
their body.  Many attacks, such as bash and trip, would send most people 
to the ground, stunning them.  However, monks can often manage to stay on 
their feet.  They still receive the damage, but they do not have to waste 
time standing back up.  Only a monk in the defensive can focus enough on 
balancing.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#696
60 'DRUNKEN STANCE' DRUNKEN~
DRUNKEN STANCE

Syntax: drunken

The drunken stance symbolizes the spontaneous movement and elusiveness 
of a drunk.  The monk staggers around unpredictably, making it more 
difficult to connect a blow to the monk.  The monk will be affected by 
all affects of being drunk.  Heavy equipment will weight the monk down,
preventing the monk from moving freely. In order to move as a drunk, a 
monk must empower their defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#697
60 CATALEPSY~
CATALEPSY

Syntax: catalepsy

Monks are skilled enough to control their body.  Thus, they are able to
lower their body temperature and heart rate, causing self induced
catalepsy.  In this form, they appear to be dead, looking exactly like a
corpse, fooling their opponents.  However, they can still be attacked, and 
the mana upkeep is required.  In this state, monks do not know what is going 
on around them.  To appear dead, a monk must be defensive. To return back to 
normal, monks use the REVIVE command.  

See also REVIVE, EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#698
60 EMPOWER EMPOWERMENT~
syntax: empower offense, empower defense

In order to use their more advanced skills, monks will have to prepare
themselves specifically for their tasks.  This process is known as
empowerment.  Monks can only choose to empower either offensively or 
defensively, not both.  An offensively empowered monk will be able
to use such skills as air thrash, while a defensively empowered monk
gains access to more advanced defenses like second parry and balance.

See also: OFFENSIVE, DEFENSIVE.
~

#699
60 'MONKEY STANCE' MONKEY~
MONKEY STANCE

Syntax: monkey

The monkey stance symbolizes the agility and speed of the monkey.  While
in this stance, it allows the monk to move twice as quickly during battle.
But because they only have half the time to prepare, each attack only 
does a little more than half the normal damage.  While moving quickly, 
monks must consume lots of food and water.  Heavy equipment hinders the 
agility of the monkey.  To be as the monkey, a monk must be in the 
offensive.

See also,  EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#700
60 'BUDDHA STANCE' BUDDHA~
BUDDHA STANCE

Syntax: buddha

The Buddha stance symbolizes the peace and tranquility of the Buddha's 
philosophies.  The Buddha stance allows the monk to take full control of 
his mind, resisting all harmful spells cast against the monk. This stance 
requires that no heavy equipment is worn on the head to distract the 
concentration of the monk.  To be one with the Buddha, a monk must first 
empower his defenses.

See also EMPOWER, DEFENSIVE.
~

#701
60 'DRAGON STANCE' DRAGON~
DRAGON STANCE

Syntax: dragon

The dragon stance symbolizes the magnificence and longevity of the dragon.  
Filled with the spirit of the dragon, the monk will increase in size, and 
embody the health of the dragon.  The monk can also disarm easier while in 
the dragon stance.  Most equipment hinders the growth of the monk.  To be 
as a dragon, a monk must first empower their offenses.

See also EMPOWER, OFFENSIVE.
~

#702
60 STANCE~
'STANCE'

In conjunction with mental and physical training, a skilled monk learns the 
fighting styles and attributes of many.  The monk then focuses their mind and 
mimics that style with great accuracy.  The monk must assume that stance, to 
properly fight like what they seek to mimic.  Since the different stances they 
may learn do different things, they must either empower offensive or defensive 
to successfully do a certain stance.  Some attacks and/or effects are unique
to the particular stance.

See following: HORSE, MANTIS, DRUNKEN, BUDDHA, CRANE, TIGER, MONKEY, DRAGON
~

#703
-1 'THE SERPENTINE' 'THE SERPENTINE RIVER'~
THE SERPENTINE RIVER SERPENTINE RIVER

This river is the second longest river in the Western Realms.  It runs through
the heart of Palinor and most of that nation's people dwell within its valley.
Broad and calm, the river sees much mercantile traffic in the form of animal
drawn barges. The delta ends at the city of Emmereaux, where the waters of the
Serpentine spill into the Sea of Palinor.

~

#704
-1 'CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS'~
CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS

  Classes: Warrior, Paladin, Berserker
  Races	 : Elf, Half-Elf, Human, Storm Giant
  Level	 : 50
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "crusader application" in application subject
  - Must be good aligned
  - Must be follower of the One God
  - Cannot be a Solar
  - Cannot be member of any cabal  

You must send a scroll of application to Immortals, scribing of your history,
goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be approved.  The
scroll must bear the title which includes words crusader and application or it
will not be considered.  If your scroll is approved by the Order of Crusades
you shall be made to know what else is required of you.

When you become a Crusader, you will be reduced to the first rank of the Order
of Crusades, with applicable abilities, health and mind power.  Any skills
which you may be allowed to use in future will be kept the others are forgotten.

See also: CRUSADERS, ORDER OF CRUSADES, SELECT
~

#705
-1 'ORDER OF CRUSADES'~
ORDER OF CRUSADES

BEGINNINGS


HISTORY


MISSION


See also, CRUSADER, CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS
~

#706
-1 CRUSADER CRUSADERS~
CRUSADER  

See also: SELECT, CRUSADER REQUIREMENTS, ORDER OF CRUSADES

~

#707
-2 crusader~ CRUSADER CRUSADERS 'ORDER OF CRUSADES'~
See also: OBELISKS, PSALMS, STARSTONE, MODIFY, CRUSADER LIMIT
~

#708
-2 crusader~ 'CRUSADER LIMIT'~
CRUSADER LIMIT


See also: WEAPONCRAFT, AMORCRAFT, CRUSADER, ORDER OF CRUSADES
~

#709
-2 crusader~ OBELISK OBELISKS~
OBELISKS

Foreseeing great trails and dangers ahead of them, the Order of Crusades
commissioned the dwarven Master Smiths to construct number of stone markers
throughout the land.  Upon these obelisks were then inscribed the Order's
teachings, and secrets to keep their knowledge forever safe.

To safeguard the history, philosophy as well as secrets of the Order, the
inscriptions were scribed in form of Psalms, which worthy Crusaders would
commit to memory to be chanted when needed.

See also: CHANT, STARSTONE

~

#710
-2 crusader~ CHANT~
CHANT

syntax: chant <psalm>	:chants a given psalm
	chant <number>	:chants a psalm of given number as per "psalms"
	interrupt	:interrupts the process

  The Order of Crusades' focus on spiritual health and its goals of
independence have resulted in Crusaders being taught the ancient art
of chants and lore of Psalms.

A Crusader may chant a memorized psalm, using it to focus their mind 
and body to the point where their abilities begin to surpass the mundane.
The concentration involved is enormous, and when a chant begins, the
Crusader will not be able to do anything but meditate and chant.

Only a single Psalm may be held in one's mind at any given time and
only death or natural expiration will remove them.

See also: PSALMS, OBELISKS, INTERRUPT
~

#711
-1 STARSTONE STARSTONES~
STARSTONES

Fulfilling their goal of independence and self-sustenance the Order of
Crusades made great efforts to gather every tome, scripture and rumors
that could further benefit their already advanced metallurgic techniques.
One of such ancient tomes led to discovery of a wondrous mineral called
Starstone, which oft could be found amidst giant craters in the land
as if the earth was trying to expel the strange stone.

The stone maybe found scattered through the lands in various locations
in form of slabs of starstone often burnt and scarred but never shattered.
It's properties are many, and most wondrous or almost magical in nature.
The stone has almost no weight, yet a slight momentum results in impetus
worthy of lead or gold, it resists extreme stress and shear and is all
but impervious to non magical fires.

With cooperation of the dwarven Master Smiths in trade for the secrets
of this stone, the Order of Crusades has developed unique ways of working
the starstones and guards its properties with dangerous secrecy.

See also: ARMORCRAFT, WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY
~

#712
-2 crusader~ 'SHOULDER SMASH'~
SHOULDER SMASH

Syntax: shoulder
	shoulder <target>

Using the sheer kinetic force of their heavy armors and body, the 
user of this skill hurls his or her body at the given target.  Unlike
the likes of bash or bodyslam however, the objective is to cause brutal
damage to the victim.  Often the target is hit so hard as to make defense
or movement difficult, and some were known to get pummeled so hard by
this armored charge as to loose grip of weapons or shields.
~

#713
-2 crusader~ 'ARMORED RUSH'~
ARMORED RUSH

Syntax: rush
	rush <target>

As masters of the brutal two handed combat tactics,  Crusaders forgo maneuvers
such as bash and trip and use their giant weapons to bring whole groups of 
enemies to a standstill.  Using their arms in such way as to stun their 
enemies rather then cause damage, they are more the capable of sending the 
most stalwart foes to their knees through sheer kinetic force.  Charging so 
into the fray, their armor absorbing the blows, the Crusader swings his 
massive weapon about knocking his foes down as if they were mere practice 
dummies.  
~

#714
-2 crusader~ MINOR~
MINOR

  The Minor skill group is the first group of skill choices a Crusader
may select from using the "select" command.  It contains six skill from 
which three will be chosen at various ranks.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  2h handling			NONE			orealts 1st
  2h tactics			NONE			NONE
  history of armaments		NONE			NONE
  arms maintenance		NONE			NONE
  basic armor			NONE			NONE
  orealts 1st			NONE			2h handling

For further help on each skill use "help" command.

See also: SELECT, MAJOR, SPECIALTY, SIGNATURE
~

#715
-2 crusader~ '2H HANDLING~
2H HANDLING

syntax: automatic

  The theory of handling large two handed weapons as well as best stances
holds and storage techniques to reduce bulk and effort required to use them.
This skills starts the crusader on the path to disciplines allowing for
great speed in combat and offensive ability.

All two handed weapon weight requirements are halved.

See also: MINOR
~

#716
-2 crusader~ '2H TACTICS~
2H HANDLING

syntax: low             : defensive weapon position
        normal          : standard weapon position
        high            : offensive weapon position

  Theories of advanced combat tactics with two handed weapons, allowing the
user to alter their stances and combat maneuvers to place the weapon in
various positions.  The high position is perfect when greater offense is 
needed, sacrificing a bit of defense for increased offense.  The low position
is an antithesis of high, sacrificing a bit of offense for better defense.

See also: MINOR
~

#717
-2 crusader~ 'HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS~
HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS

syntax: automatic

  The study of history and principles of personal combat, with focus on
use of weapons and more importantly ways to stop them.  This skill will
start the Crusader on the path of constructing advanced armors beyond skills
of common artisans.

Allows for better appraising of armors with "lore".
Allows for journeyman level of armor modification.

See also: MINOR, MODIFY, ARMORCRAFT
~

#718
-2 crusader~ 'ARMS MAINTENANCE~
ARMS MAINTENANCE

syntax: automatic

  The study of history and principles of personal combat, with focus on
use of weapons and their construction or maintenance.  This skill will
start the Crusader on the path of adding useful modifications to his weapons
beyond the skill of common artisans.
Allows for better appraising of weapons with "lore".
Allows for journeyman level of weapon modification.

See also: MINOR, MODIFY, WEAPONCRAFT
~

#719
-2 crusader~ 'BASIC ARMOR~
BASIC ARMOR

syntax: automatic

Teachings on principles of armor usage, and best ways of protecting flesh
with it.  Unlike history of armaments, this skill focuses on best ways
of placing the armor rather then principles behind its construction.
Increases the over all benefit gained from all armors.
Decreases the burden an armor places on the user when worn.

See also: MINOR
~

#720
-2 crusader~ 'OREALTS 1ST' 'OREALTS FIRST'~
OREALTS FIRST

syntax: automatic

  In an official holy ceremony, the Order of Crusades allows the pupil to
read the First Tome of Orealt, a collection of thoughts and teachings scribed
by the great elven Paladin before his sacrifice.  The Tome is said to focus
on tactics of single combat and has never failed to enlighten the student in
ways of armed defense.

Permanently increases users agility and its uses in defensive combat.

See also: MINOR
~

#721
-2 crusader~ MAJOR~
MAJOR

  The Major group of skills is the second group a Crusader will choose from.
It contains skills which play a large role in deciding the particular area
the Crusader will excel in.  The group contains eight skills of which two
will be chosen at various ranks.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  2h mastery			NONE			NONE
  damage mastery B		NONE		armor enhancement
  damage mastery S		NONE		armor enhancement
  damage mastery P		NONE		armor enhancement
  armor enhancement	history of armaments	damage mastery B/P/S
  adv. armor		basic armor			NONE
  adv. handling		2h handling		orealts 2nd
  orealts 2nd		orealts 1st		adv. handling

For further help on each skill use "help" command.

See also: SELECT, MINOR, SPECIALTY, SIGNATURE
~

#722
-2 crusader~ '2H MASTERY'~
2H MASTERY

syntax: automatic

  The complete mastery and dedication to the arts of two handed weapon combat.
The user gains unheard of ability to use any two handed weapon, as long as 
both hands are one the weapon (a shield or held item will prevent the bonus).
This complete dedication comes at a price however, as the skill with normal
one handed weapons suffers slightly.

Grants bonus to use of all two handed weapons.

See also: MAJOR
~

#723
-2 crusader~ 'ADV. HANDLING' 'ADV HANDLING'~
ADV. HANDLING

syntax: automatic

  Advances theories of handling large two handed weapons, allow the skilled
user to not move faster and with more control of the heavy weapon.  As result
the chance to execute multiple attacks in combat increases greatly.
A Crusader skilled in advanced handling can maneuvers around his group mates,
cause more damage, and Optionally choose a direction in which to impale when using 
that skill.

See also: MAJOR, IMPALE
~

#724
-2 crusader~ 'OREALTS 2nd' 'OREALTS SECOND'~
OREALTS SECOND

syntax: automatic

  After an official letter of petition an accomplished pupil of the Order of
Crusades may be allowed a glimpse at the Second Tome of Orealt.  This holy
relic was penned by the hand of the renowned and holy Orealt while he lent his
service to the Knights of the Crown.  Within are contained various teachings
of combat relying on quick cutting strikes used in moments of opportunity.
The tome has yet to fail in enlightening the student in ways of one on one 
combat.

Allows a chance to execute backcutter when an opponent flees the battle.

See also: MAJOR
~

#725
-2 crusader~ CUTTER~
CUTTER

syntax:	cutter <target>

  Clad in heavy armors and wielding massive weapons, the members of Order of
Crusaders have always lacked reliable means of bringing an opponent to the
ground.  This technique accidently developed by a student learning to cusinart 
(at great peril to himself) allows the pupil to execute extremely vicious attack 
aimed at victim's legs.  The blow not only causes grievous damage, but also has 
the momentum and brutality required to send anyone to the ground.

See also: CUSINART
~

#726
-2 crusader~ 'DAMAGE MASTERY B' DAMAGE MASTERY S' DAMAGE MASTERY P'~
DAMAGE MASTERY B/S/P  (Bash/Slash/Pierce)

syntax: automatic

  A complete mastery of a single class of damage.  The pupil learns various
techniques and tricks to magnify the particular class of damage caused.
When using any weapon dealing the appropriate class of damage, the user will
enhance the effect of weapon, landing heavier, more deadly blows.
Allows for greater damage in particular damage category.

See also: MAJOR
~

#727
-2 crusader~ 'ADVANCED ARMOR' 'ADV. ARMOR' 'ADV ARMOR'~
ADVANCED ARMOR

syntax: automatic

  Further teachings of best uses of armor, that build and expand on the
groundwork laid by basic armor.  The Crusader not only learns how to position,
wear, and use the armor to best deflect various blows, but also how to
move and ride in heavy armor as to reduce the effects of its weight.
Slight increases over all armor, and reduces weight of worn armor.

Greatly increases the protection from torso, arms, legs, face and head armor.

See also: MAJOR, BASIC ARMOR
~

#728
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR ENHANCEMENT'~
ARMOR ENHANCEMENT

syntax: automatic

  Further teachings that depend on the groundwork laid by history of armaments.
The pupil learns advanced techniques of modular armor design and begins to
be introduced into the secrets surrounding treatment and use of Starstone.

Allows for expert level of armor modification.

See also: MODIFY, ARMORCRAFT, HISTORY OF ARMAMENTS
~

#729
-2 crusader~ SPECIALTY~
SPECIALTY

  The specialty group of skills fully dedicates the Crusader to a particular
path of life.  Only one skill may be chosen out of the total of six.

	name		      requires		disallowed by
  control damage	damage mastery B/P/S	armorcraft
  blind fighting	orealts 2nd		cusinart
  cusinart		adv. handling		blind fighting
  psalm master		NONE			NONE
  witch compass		NONE			NONE
  weaponcraft		arms maintenance	NONE
  armorcraft		armor enhancement	NONE

For further help on each skill use "help" command.

See also: SELECT, MINOR, MAJOR, SIGNATURE
~

#730
-2 crusader~ 'CONTROL DAMAGE'~
CONTROL D DAMAGE

syntax: damage <slash/blunt/pierce/normal>

  Total mastery of handling a two handed weapon and the damage it causes.
Allows the user to specify the type of damage they prefer to cause in combat,
instead of the damage type that the weapon causes.

Causes "batter" skill to ignore the damage penalty for non-blunt damage.
Impale may be executed with any weapon type

Behead may be executed with any weapon type.

See also: SPECIALTY, BATTER
~

#731
-2 crusader~ CUSINART~
CUSINART

syntax: automatic
        cutter <target>

An advanced form of windmill, it requires extreme mental strength to control
one's rage as he swings deadly arcs all about.  A Crusader skilled in cusinart
is a master of such art, and is capable of engaging multiple opponents with
ease with greater speed, all while at the same time keeping close eye upon any 
allies nearby.

All disadvantages of windmill are removed, user automatically windmills in 
combat when necessary, and allows the use of "cutter" command.

See also: SPECIALTY, WINDMILL, CUTTER
~

#732
-5 ~ 'WITCH COMPASS' WITCHCOMPASS~
WITCH COMPASS

syntax: witch <target>		: draws blood for further use
	witch			: use the witch compass

  A device developed by the witchhunter sect of the Order of Crusades, this 
strange devices forged by the Order's Master Armorers can be used to detect
presence of unnatural beings such as warlocks, witches, demons, and undead.
The device has been an object of many heated debates in the Order due to its
heretical requirement for user's blood, which is drawn on use.

See also: SPECIALTY
~

#733
-2 crusader~ 'PSALM MASTER'~
PSALM MASTER

syntax: automatic

  Many members of the Order of Crusade forgo the dedication to the violent 
arts of combat and focus on their spiritual side.  Thus dedicated to the
One God these holy men and women of the order have been known to be able
to memorize far more psalms then their less spiritually inclined brethren.
Allows for 50% increase in the maximum of psalms that may be memorized,
and negates the harmful effects of the Psalm of Baptism.

See Also: OBELISKS, CHANT
~

#734
-2 crusader~ 'WEAPON CRAFT' WEAPONCRAFT~
WEAPONCRAFT

syntax: automatic

  Those of the Order of Crusades skilled in this art are held in awe by 
both those in the Order and outside of it.  Skilled in all manners of 
creation, modification and improvement of weapons the Master Smiths of 
the Order of Crusades are capable of creating weapons of unparalleled 
quality and destructive ability. 

Allows for Master level of weapon modifications

See also: SPECIALTY, MODIFY
~

#735
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR CRAFT' ARMORCRAFT~
ARMORCRAFT

syntax: automatic

  Those of the Order of Crusades skilled in this art are held in awe by 
both those in the Order and outside of it.  Skilled in all manners of 
creation, modification and improvement of armor the Master Armorers of 
the Order of Crusades are capable of creating armors that absorb the
heaviest of blows, and withstand the powers of hell itself.  An armor
marked by signature of such Master Armorer is rumored to be all but
unusable by anyone who is not their owner.

Allows for Master level of armor modifications.

See also: SPECIALTY, MODIFY
~

#736
-2 crusader~ MODIFY~
MODIFY

syntax:	
modify help <modification>		:show specific info on the modification
modify <obj>				:show possible modifications on obj
modify <obj> <modification>		:modify the object 
modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using a part
interrupt				:interrupts the process

  The Order of Crusades' focus on independence and self-reliance in face of
any odd and its stress on virtue of Modesty caused the Order to begin 
schooling their members in disciplines of armor and weapon craft soon after
the Order's Conception.  With the discovery of the scripts which led to the
Order's use of Starstone, the positions of Master Armorer and Smith have been
one of the most prestigious within the Order.

A Crusader may use "modify" command to attempt to modify weapon or armor and
increase their abilities.  For a list of possible modifications to an object
use "modify <object>" command.

Every modification has a minimum skill level of common, journeyman, expert 
or master, which unless met causes the modification to not be displayed.
Various skills such as "history of armaments" or "arms maintenance" increase
the level of skill in armorcraft or weaponcraft thus allowing more complex
modifications.  For specific information on particular modification use 
"modify help <name>".

For more information specific to ARMOR:  "HELP ARMOR MODIFY"
For more information specific to WEAPON: "HELP WEAPON MODIFY"

See also: ARMOR MODIFY, WEAPON MODIFY, HOLY WEAPON, STARSTONES, ARMORCRAFT,
WEAPONCRAFT, INTERRUPT
~

#737
-2 crusader~ INTERRUPT~
INTERRUPT

syntax: interrupt

  When one is busy with a complex task such as armor craft or chanting,
you can interrupt it with this command and once again move about a normal.
Keep in mind, that any penalties for premature end of the task apply.

See also: CHANT, MODIFY
~

#738
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR MODIFY'~
MODIFY
syntax:	
  modify help <modification>		:show specific info on the modification
  modify <obj>				:show possible modifications on obj
  modify <obj> <modification>		:modify the object 
  modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using given part

*NOTE: use  ' ' around any object or modification that is of two or more words.

To see a list of modifications to given object, use "modify <object>"

Example: "modify iron plate"

The modifications marked by:
	 `#V``	: are allowed
	 `8V``	: have already been completed

To see detailed information on parts, or number of starstones required for the
modification use "modify help <modification>".

Example: "modify help hellplating"


To begin a modification on a given object use "modify <obj> <modification>"

Example: "modify 'iron plate' padding

A special case of modification is the "conversion" modification which
converts the armor as to allow further modification.  This also removes
the rare/unique status for the armor allowing the Crusader to wear it
without penalty.

Some modifications require parts (must be armor parts).  These parts might
have to be of rare quality, or from same set of armor as the one being 
modified.  Some powerful modifications require the armor AND the parts to
be rare as well as starstones.

See also: ARMORCRAFT, MODIFY
~

#739
-2 crusader~ 'WEAPON MODIFY'~
WEAPON MODIFY

syntax:	
  modify help <modification>		:show specific info on the modification
  modify <obj>				:show possible modifications on obj
  modify <obj> <modification>		:modify the object 
  modify <obj> <modification> <part>	:modify the object using given part

*NOTE: use  ' ' around any object or modification that is of two or more words.

To see a list of modifications to given object, use "modify <object>"

Example: "modify iron sword"

The modifications marked by:
	 `#V``	: are allowed
	 `8V``	: have already been completed
	 `1X``	: the weapon has not been consecrated or is not of high enough
		  level

To see detailed information on parts, or number of starstones required for the
modification use "modify help <modification>".

Example: "modify help hellplating"

Many of the weapon modification require the weapon to be first consecrated
using "consecration" modification, and then further empowered to proper
level by carrying out "crusades" or "avenging" those whom have been killed.
read "HELP HOLY WEAPON" for more details.

To begin a modification on a given object use "modify <obj> <modification>"
Example: "modify 'iron sword' serrations.

Some modifications require parts (must be weapon parts).  These parts might
have to be of rare quality, but unlike armor modifications, never require
parts from the same weapon.  You may also have to hold a certain number of
starstones to begin the process.

See also: WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY, HOLY WEAPON
~

#740
-2 crusader~ 'HOLY WEAPON'~
HOLY WEAPON

syntax: automatic with use of "modify <weapon> consecration"

  A Crusader must consecrate their weapon before any of the more powerful
modifications may be placed upon it.  The ritual of consecration places
powerful blessings upon the weapon, from then on turning it into a tool
of divine retribution.

When such weapon is used to strike down a player of race or guild whom 
the Crusader has called a Crusade against, or someone whom Crusader has 
killed when acting as an avenger.  The holy weapon will grow in its 
benevolence, further increasing in power and reflecting the Crusaders 
performance along the teachings of the Order of Crusades.

Most weapon modifications require the weapon to be of certain circle of power,
reflecting the strength of blessings on the Holy Weapon.  
NOTE however, that the increasing in the power of the Holy Weapon is
very much proportional to the rank of the victim put down with its edge.

See also: WEAPONCRAFT, MODIFY, CRUSADE, AVENGER
~

#741
-2 crusader~ CRUSADE~
CRUSADE

syntax: crusade <race or class or cabal>

The hall mark of the Order of Crusades, this skill announces the beginning of
a Crusade against a particular faction.  A Crusader then leaves any of his
comrades behind, and rides forth against the faction he has chosen to war
against.  While on Crusade, the holy warrior receives substantial combat bonus
against the faction he has chosen to war against, and will move swiftly through
any terrain.  At the same time, the his morale will suffer against any other
foe, and hence will suffer small combat penalty when fighting them.

Note however that the combat bonus against the chose faction is far greater 
then the penalty, and that Crusade is the only way beyond use of Avenger to 
increase the level of Consecrated (Holy) weapon.

See also:  AVENGER, HOLY WEAPON
~

#742
-2 crusader~ AVENGER~
AVENGER

syntax:	avenge <corpse>

Following their virtues of Valour, and Honour, a Crusader may choose to 
avenge a fallen victim and bring divine retribution to the wrong doer.  
If the original murdered is within the lands, and not protected from
the Crusader, the holy warrior will leave his comrades and journey forth
with intent of slaying the murderer and bringing justice to the victim.

While avenging a victim, the Crusader will always sense the murderer's
location in the area and the room, even if they might not be able to see
them.  Furthermore when filled with the holy fervor of retribution the
Crusader will strike more powerful blows against the one he is pursuing
even if his moral will suffer if he fights targets other then the intended
murderer.

However, when the mission of revenge is final carried through, any benefits
received towards experience, cabal points or Holy Weapon are greatly increased.

See also: CRUSADE, HOLY WEAPON, MODIFY
~

#743
-2 crusader~ SIGNATURE~
SIGNATURE

The signature skills of Crusader are so rare and so distinct that many of the
great man of the Order of Crusades have been remembered by their signature 
skills rather then their names.  Only one skill may be chosen and the
title you shall receive when you reach the peak of the Order will signify 
your choice.

	name		      requires		    disallowed by
  fourth attack		adv. handling		behead, orealts 2nd
  behead		orealts 2nd		fourth attack, adv. handling
  pommel smash		2h mastery		NONE
  armor pierce		adv. armor		NONE
  pious			NONE			NONE
  high sight		damage mastery S/B/P	NONE

For further help on each skill use "help" command.

See also: SELECT, MINOR, MAJOR, SPECIALTY
~

#744
-2 crusader~ BEHEAD~
BEHEAD

syntax: behead

Using the principles set forth in the Second Tome of Orealt, the Crusader may
execute a swift cutting strike aimed at the spot between target's neck guard 
and the helm.  While the a successful beheading is practically unheard off, 
the brutal damage to an artery rich area will often result in spectacular
spouts of blood and satisfaction on part of the Crusader.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#745
-2 crusader~ 'POMMEL SMASH'~
POMMEL SMASH

syntax: pommel		
	pommel <anything>	: force standard pommel smash


  Using their mastery of two handed weapons, a Crusader may quickly sidestep
and plant a perfectly aimed blow to the head with the massive pommel found on
almost every two handed weapon.  The blow when struck with a blunt pommel
will often daze and confuse the victim causing him to lose track of directions.
When done with a spiked or barbed pommel which are common amongst the Order's
requests for modifications, the vicious blow is aimed through the visor of
the enemy.  The effect of such vicious blow is left to one's imagination.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#746
-2 crusader~ 'ARMOR PIERCE'~
ARMOR PIERCE

syntax: armorpierce	: (automatic for next round of combat)

  He who giveth taketh away.  Those Crusaders skilled in the best uses of
armor through advanced armor skill, know exact spots and weaknesses of the
protective suits.  Using this knowledge they automatically attempt to bypass
the opponent's armor causing their blows to totally ignore the beneficial 
effects of armor on success.  Furthermore, each blow that the Crusader lands 
has a chance of damaging the victim's armor reducing its benefit.  Only a 
single such blow may be placed per use of the skill, as opposed to the automatic
effect of bypassing armor which is always attempted as long as the skill is
active.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#747
-2 crusader~ PIOUS~
PIOUS

syntax:	automatic

  There are those in the Order of Crusades so devoted to the One God and the
teachings of Modesty, that their soul reaches spiritual heights never touched
by others.  These near-Saints of the Order are known to have wondrous ability
to chant multiple psalms at the same time, granting them powers that awe even
the most stalwart of foes.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#748
-2 crusader~ 'HIGH SIGHT'~
HIGH SIGHT

syntax:	automatic

  After years of practice and many battles, those Crusaders skilled with any
type of damage mastery, are said to develop a strange ability to exactly
pinpoint the spot upon ones body where a malady or disease lurks.  In addition
rumors are abound that these men and women see visions and lands never glimpsed
by ordinary men.  Using this strange sixth sense against evils and enemies of
the Order, these Crusaders are able to totally bypass any resistance of their
victims to damage.  Furthermore, if faced against an enemy possessing a 
vulnerability which the Crusader's weapon cannot take advantage off, they
will strike blows in the most vulnerable spots in victims flesh causing 
extra damage regardless.

See also: SIGNATURE
~

#749
-2 crusader~ IMPALE~
IMPALE

syntax:	impale <target>
syntax:	impale <direction> <target> //optional with Adv. Handling

  Using a two handed spear, sword or a polearm, a Crusader may rush a target
and skewer them on their weapon.  Using their impetus further, the Crusader
attempts to carry the victim out of the immediate area to continue combat
else where.  While those not skilled in advanced techniques of handling weapon
cannot hope to choose a direction of their charge, some Crusaders are known
to toss their enemies about like a bale of hey.

See also: ADV. HANDLING
~

#750
-2 crusader~ 'DESTROY UNDEAD'~
DESTROY UNDEAD

syntax:	destroy

  Using the holy teachings of the One God, combined with the knowledge of
the Order of Crusades stored in ancient relics.  A Crusader may mix special
powders and liquids that when released into the air have a most deadly 
effect on any undead beings in vicinity.  There are even stories of Crusaders
turning undead to ashes using such deadly concoctions.
~

#751
-2 crusader~ WINDMILL~
WINDMILL

syntax:	windmill		:turns windmill on/off
	windmill <anything>	:special out of combat use with a Psalm of 
                                 Righteousness.

 The name of this particular form of combat comes from the sound a large two
handed weapon makes when the user swings it about in continuous, sweeping arcs.
Carrying deadly momentum the weapon makes a sound comparable to the swoosh
created by a windmill's blades.  When used in close combat however, few 
have time to react to the deadly sound  before the wide arcs reach them 
regardless where they stand.  Turns the windmill effect on and off.
~

#752
-2 crusader~ DEFLECT~
DEFLECT

syntax:	deflect <primary/secondary>

  Using the sheer momentum and impetus of their huge weapons, Crusaders are
able to strike extremely powerful blows against their enemies weapons.  When
executed properly, this maneuver deflects the weapon with such force that it
takes a round of combat for the victim to regain control and be able to attack
anew.  Since one normally has less control over an offhand weapon, those
weapons are much easier to deflect.

See also: DOUBLE GRIP
~

#753
-2 crusader~ BATTER~
BATTER

syntax: batter

  A hallmark skill of the Order of Crusades it allows a user of heavy two
handed weapons to strike blows not aimed to damage the victim, but rather to
stun and daze them.  The Crusader uses their weapons to cause blunt damage
to the target, thus staggering them backwards while they soak up the brutal
kinetic forces of his blows.  When a person becomes sufficiently stunned
they may lose grip on their weapons and shields while they recover.

The effect of battering is cumulative and lasts at least an hour or more from
the last battering received.  Unless the weapon is blunt in nature, or the
damage is controlled to be blunt, the damage caused while the Crusader 
concentrates on battering blows is reduced.

See also: CONTROL DAMAGE
~

#754
-1 'DARKLING WOOD' 'THE DARKLING WOOD' 'DARKLING'~
THE DARKLING WOOD DARKLING WOOD DARKLING

This pine forest, comprised mostly of black pines, sits in a 
bowl of the Lesser Raider Mountains.  A thick and dismal growth, 
the light of the sun never penetrates far into the forest, even 
at noon.  The forest is claimed by five clans of sylvan elves 
(the Blacktree clans) and death is the penalty for entering their 
forest unbidden.  Owing to the elves' few numbers and the gloom 
of the place, it is a breeding ground for many fierce monsters 
and humanoids, most notably goblins.~

#755
-1 VENTRILOQUATE~
VENTRILOQUATE

Syntax: ventriloquate <name> <message>

This spell throws the caster's voice, making it appear that some other 
object or person in the room is saying the caster's message.  Victims who 
sees through the spell will know that someone is using ventriloquism, but 
not who. Victims who did not see through the spell will think that the object
or person really did say the caster's message.
~

#756
-1 'CREATE TORCH'~
CREATE TORCH

Syntax: Create_Torch

When bards find themselves in the dark and without a light, they have 
the ability to gather what materials rummage around and find and then use 
them to create an impressive small torch.  The torch gives off a brilliant 
light that will allow the bard to see in the dark.
~

#757
-1 PANHANDLE~
PANHANDLE

Syntax: Panhandle <target>

When bards are in a monetary bind they can use their charm and notable
reputations to panhandle enough money to get them back on their feet.  
If done correctly the target will be compelled to dip into their pocket and 
share some of their wealth with the needy bard.
~

#758
-1 KNOCKOUT~
KNOCKOUT

Syntax: Knockout

From years and years of drunken bar brawls, bards have learned many 
secrets of fighting.  One such secret if to end the fight before it 
starts.  With a hit on the right spot, bards have the ability to render 
their victim unconscious.  The victim of this punch must be in perfect 
health, and have not already dodged it.   Due to the accuracy it takes
to make this hit successful it will often fail.  
~

#759
-1 DUET~
DUET

Syntax: duet <target>

When bards are in the companionship of other bards, they can pick each
other as their partners to sing duets.  Both bards have to select the other
as their duet partner to sing in a duet.  Keep in mind that the bards sing 
on their own skill level, meaning if one person loses their concentration, 
or disturbed by other means, the duet will not take place, and only the 
first person attempting to sing the song will sing it.  The same goes for the
songs that are not able to be sang in a duet.  There are two type of 
duets, one in which both bards will have the effect of the song, at a lower 
mana cost, or one total effect which the bards will share the lower mana 
cost.  There are some other benefits in duet that the bard will need to figure 
out on their own.
~

#760
-1 REFRAIN~
REFRAIN

Syntax: Refrain <song>

Before a battle, a bard might wish to practice his songs before putting
them to use.  One way to do so is to refrain the song into their minds before
attacking.  This will allow the bard to remember the song so he can 
sing it in battle without having to actively call upon it.  Some songs are 
far too complex to be refrained, or have no purpose to be refrained.
~

#761
-1 UPPERCUT~
UPPERCUT

Syntax: Uppercut

Another skill taken straight from the bars, a Bard has the ability to 
throw such a stunning uppercut that it can knock the jaw of the victim loose.
While the jaw is loose, no words can be spoken, nor can spells be chanted.
~

#762
-1 BRAWL~
BRAWL

Syntax: automatic

Having been involved in many fights in bars, bards have adapted to 
indoor environments.  Using the props inside rooms and bars, bards have a 
fighting advantage, using the items in the room to their advantage.
~

#763
-1 TAROT 'TAROT CARD' 'TAROT CARDS'~
TAROT CARD

Syntax: Tarot <target>

One of the most mysterious skills possessed by the Bard.  A bard has 
the ability to analyze the ancient Tarot cards so proficiently that they 
actually affect whomever they are read for.  Be forewarned, the Tarot contain
both fortunate and misfortunate cards, so it is taken upon your own risk.
Bards can only read the fortune of those that are willing, thus they must be
following the bard for the bard to perform this act.
~

#764
-1 TUNE~
TUNE

Syntax: tune <instrument>

Bards can tune their instrument to be more harmonic thus benefitting the bard
when wielding them.  Various effects are added to the instrument after they are
tuned.  An instrument can be tuned multiple times, but becomes more likely to
be ruined with each successive tune.
~

#765
-1 ANALYZE~
ANALYZE

Syntax: Analyze <target>

Learning to fight in the bars has taught Bards is to quickly note the
vulnerabilities of their opponents.  When a bard analyzes an opponent 
he can many interesting facts about them, and what their bodies can handle, 
and what can hurt them most.  
~

#766
-1 LURE~
LURE

Syntax: Lure <target>

In the taverns Bards can often find themselves fighting off a large group of
people.  They have adopted this ancient technique to help even the fight.  A
bard can use their looks, reputation, and words to lure their target into
following them.  Note that at no time will the target be under the bard's
control, but instead compelled to follow him elsewhere so they might fight
in privacy.
~

#767
-1 'A SOOTHING MELODY'~
A SOOTHING MELODY

Syntax: sing 'A soothing melody'

Bards have the ability to sing a melody so soothing to the ear, that it
makes those that are traveling within your group forget the aches of their
minor wounds.  Only those grouped with the Bard will be affected by the
soothing melody.
~

#768
-1 'SERENADE'~
SERENADE

Syntax: sing 'Serenade'

When someone catches the fancy of a bard's eye they may choose to serenade them.
Serenading is an ancient bard trait that has no known affects except to show
their admiration of a particular person.
~

#769
-1 'REST THY FEET'~
REST THY FEET

Syntax: sing 'Rest thy feet'

After a long, tedious journey Bards have the ability to sing a song that will
relieve and relax the worn legs of those traveling in his group.  Only those
grouped with the Bard can benefit from the song's melody.
~

#770
-1 'WATER TO WINE'~
WATER TO WINE

Syntax: sing 'water to wine' <container>

This song originally composed by the elves, are now commonly sang for 
all bards.  It magically alters the content in the container from water to 
wine, as the name of the song implies.  The liquid in the container must be 
water, for the conversion to take place.
~

#771
-1 'GOOD TIDINGS'~
GOOD TIDINGS

Syntax: sing 'Good tidings'

When a bard feels down they often sing the song of good tidings.  The
melody uplifts the spirit and makes one believe they are luckier than
normal.  Those that are fortunate enough to travel in the company of 
the bard share the song's affects.
~

#772
-1 'LEVIATHANS PASSING'~
LEVIATHANS PASSING

Syntax: sing 'Leviathans passing'

When a bard's voice becomes parched he can call upon the mighty Leviathan
to come to his aid.  This song summons up the Leviathan to cross the bard's
path, leaving a spring for the bard to partake.
~

#773
-1 'SHIELD OF WORDS'~
SHIELD OF WORDS

Syntax: sing 'Shield of words'

As a bard grows in experience his voice becomes more than just a way to
communicate.  His words can encompass him in a mighty shield, increasing
their defense from attacks of others.
~

#774
-1 'SHARP DISCORD'~
SHARP DISCORD

Syntax: sing 'Sharp discord'

Bards can altar the pitch of their voice in such an unpleasing manner that
it causes pain to all in the room that hears it.  Those that are in a group
with the bard shall be unaffected by the discord.
~

#775
-1 'LEGEND OF HERCULES'~
LEGEND OF HERCULES

Syntax: sing 'Legend of Hercules'

Bards often sing about the great journeys of heroes past.  As a bard 
sings about the mighty Hercules the lyrics are so strong that it persuades
the mind to believe the bard, and those that group with him, are as strong 
as the legendary hero.
~

#776
-1 'BATTLE HYMN'~
BATTLE HYMN

Syntax: sing 'Battle hymn'

Before preparing to go into battle a bard is often called upon to sing
this upbeat song known to fill warriors with pride and adrenaline, making
them more efficient in battle.  Those that are in the bard's group will be
affected by this song.
~

#777
-1 LULLABY~
LULLABY

Syntax: sing 'Lullaby'

After a long day, or a fierce battle, a bard can sing a song so soothing
that it will put his group members into a deep slumber.  While in slumber
they will share the benefits of an undisturbed sleep, and heal at a faster
rate.  Those affected by the lullaby won't be able to wake themselves until
the song wears off.
~

#778
-1 'HERALD OF THE SKY'~
HERALD OF THE SKY

Syntax: sing 'Herald of the sky'

In reprisal to their lullaby, a bard can sing a song so powerful it will
travel into the subconscious of their group mates, and will instantly awake
them, no matter what has put them to sleep.
~

#779
-1 'VICTORY BE OURS'~
VICTORY BE OURS

Syntax: sing 'Victory be ours'

Celebrating a grand victory, a bard may raise his voice to the heavens 
in majestic celebration.  The song has little affect on the bard, but is
instead a way to show thanks for his feat.
~

#780
-1 'WEIGHT OF BURDEN'~
WEIGHT OF BURDEN

Syntax: sing 'Weight of burden' 

Upon hearing this song, the victim will feel weighed down with endless
tasks and guilt.  The weight of this is so heavy, it can be felt 
physically as well, adding to the load already carried by the victim.
~

#781
-1 'MOURN FOR THE LOST'~
MOURN FOR THE LOST

Syntax: sing 'Mourn for the lost' <corpse>

With the death of a friend comes a time of great sorrow for a bard.  He
can take this opportunity to mourn over the corpse of the fallen one.  
When this song is sung everyone in the room which was a companion of 
the fallen one will mourn in suffering.  With this mourning comes a sense 
of closure with the deceased, which gives extra life and protects them 
against future attacks.
~

#782
-1 'KINGS FEAST' FEAST~
A KINGS FEAST

Syntax: sing 'A kings feast'

This song will mystically enhance any food in the bard's inventory.  
The food will increase in nourishment and duration.  This song works better
on lower quality foods, and will have little or no effect on higher
quality meals.
~

#783
-1 'LET IT BE KNOWN'~
LET IT BE KNOWN

Syntax: sing 'Let it be known'

When a bard sings this song the words echo throughout the lands, 
increasing the reputation of the bard.  The name of the bard is so well known,
there isn't a shopper in the realms that has not heard of the bards travels 
and expeditions.  The increased reputation will increase the effectiveness 
of the bard's haggle on the shopkeeper.
~

#784
-1 'ODE TO GOD'~
ODE TO GOD

Syntax: sing 'Ode to God'

The bard's song is an appreciation for the respective patron God.
~

#785
-1 'CLASH OF TITANS'~
CLASH OF TITANS

Syntax: sing 'Clash of Titans'

When a bard sings this mighty song the verse echoes deep into the ground
calling forth the mighty Titans.  With one swift stroke of the land the
Titans cause an earthquake hitting all in the room that are not grouped
with the bard. 
~

#786
-1 'TWILIGHT OF FAERIES'~
TWILIGHT OF FAERIES

Syntax: sing 'Twilight of faeries'

A bard can sing a song so playful and curious that it can draw the faeries
out of hiding.  As they circle over the bard's head and dance, the dust
they spread covers the bard and his group mates, curing serious wounds
accumulated during travel.
~

#787
-1 'WEAK OF MIND AND BODY'~
WEAK OF MIND AND BODY

Syntax: sing 'Weak of mind and body'

As a bard's song can uplift the spirit, it can also weaken it.  While 
this song is sung all those that hear it will be burdened by the weight of 
the words.  They will be in this weakened state until they can get the 
words out of their head.
~

#788
-1 'HEALING OF LAUGHTER'~
HEALING OF LAUGHTER

Syntax: sing 'Healing of laughter'

A known remedy throughout the times, laughter is sometimes the very
effective in recovering from ailments that the person suffers.  The
song brings a laughter to the person's face, raising their moral and
hopes.  Sometimes it is so effective it has been known to cure certain
diseases.
~

#789
-1 'MYSTERY OF THE UNICORN'~
MYSTERY OF THE UNICORN

Syntax: sing 'Mystery of the unicorn'

As mysterious as the unicorn itself, this song's affects change with 
each breath that sings it.  As a bard raises his voice he summons the 
magical protection of the unicorn.  What type of protection is solely up to the
unicorn.
~

#790
-1 'FLIGHT OF THE CONDOR'~
FLIGHT OF THE CONDOR

Syntax: sing 'Flight of the Condor'

When bards have the need for transportation that they cannot provide
themselves they often rely on the mighty condor.  This song summons the
condor to the aid of the bard, and circling over their heads, the 
condor is willing to carry the bard in the air or over the water.
~

#791
-1 'LUST SEDUCTION DESIRE'~
LUST DESIRE SEDUCTION

Syntax: sing 'Lust desire seduction'

This song will increase the sexual need of the victim, and will cause
the victim under the affect of the song, to do compulsive things when
the opposite sex is present.
~

#792
-1 'BROKEN SPIRIT'~
BROKEN SPIRIT

Syntax: sing 'Broken spirit'

This song reflects the brutal violence of battles past.  All that hear
the song are affected so deeply that it breaks their spirit, making them 
give up fighting or deters them from even starting.
~

#793
-1 'MARRIAGE SONG'~
MARRIAGE SONG

Syntax: sing 'Marriage song'

This is a song of great joy for the bard.  This song is used in wedding
ceremonies to make the couple official.  A bard takes great pride in
performing what has been called the greatest love song ever written. 

~

#794
-1 'REST IN PEACE'~
REST IN PEACE

Syntax: sing 'Rest in peace'

This song is one of the darker songs written by the bards of old.  It 
has been known to entice the undead creatures of the realms, and gently
lure them to sleep.
~

#795
-1 'INTOXIFY MY MIND'~
INTOXIFY MY MIND

Syntax: sing 'Intoxify my mind'

After a long day's work Bards often like to sing a melody, filled with
such verses and rhymes, that will bewilder a person's mind so that they
feel themselves lightheaded and almost drunken.
~

#796
-1 'SCOURGE OF BLACK WIDOW' 'BLACK WIDOW'~
SCOURGE OF BLACK WIDOW

Syntax: sing 'Scourge of black widow'

While in battle bards can sing this song to lure several Black Widow
spiders to come to their aid.  The spiders will not fight for the bard,
but their bites can be poisonous to the victim.
~

#797
-1 'DANCE OF ARONDOS'~
DEVILS DANCE

Syntax: sing 'Devils dance'

A song said to be written to amuse the devil himself.  It causes whoever
hears it to begin dancing uncontrollably.  Whoever is subjected to this
dance shall experience fatigue in their legs and sometimes even lose
concentration from others things because of the dancing.
~

#798
-1 REMEMBRANCE~
REMEMBRANCE

Syntax: sing 'Remembrance'

Should someone fall into a state of forgetfulness a bard can stimulate 
the brain with this song.  The lyrics find the closed off information and
force it free, causing the person to remember.~

#799
-1 'VERTIGO'~
VERTIGO

Syntax: sing 'vertigo'

A well-traveled bard has the knowledge to sing a song so lyrically dumbfounding
that those hearing the song become disoriented toward their own task at hand.
There have been instances where one can't accurately target who they want to
attack or the direction they travel.
~

#800
-1 UNFORGIVEN~
UNFORGIVEN

Syntax: sing 'Unforgiven'

Throughout their travels a bard comes across many things, some are
pleasant and others are not.  This verse was written to combat those 
with curses that run in the lands.  Upon singing this song all that is 
plagued with an unholy curse, whether flesh or wares, shall not be freed.
~

#801
-1 'FOUR SEASONS'~
FOUR SEASONS

Syntax: sing 'Four seasons'

When a bard raises their voice in singing the song of the four seasons,
the elements associated with each of the four seasons are brought forth 
to aid the bard in battle.  Since there is no way to control the elements
attack focus, no one in the same room as the bard is safe from the attack.
~

#802
-1 'PARANOIA'~
PARANOIA

Syntax: sing 'Paranoia'

This bard's song is a cautious melody of a great tragedy that happened 
in the past.  Whoever hears this will begin to panic, feeling very 
paranoid of the people that crowd him.  This paranoia will cause them to 
go into a state of hysteria.
~

#803
-1 'EMANCIPATION'~
EMANCIPATION

Syntax: sing 'Emancipation'

An experienced bard is taught a song that inspires those who do not 
have freewill to break free from all who enslave them.  Be warned, once this
song leaves the bard's lips, all creatures enslaved in the room shall 
also be allowed the freewill to break free.
~

#804
-1 'TRAVEL OF SOLITARY'~
TRAVEL OF SOLITARY

Syntax: sing 'travel of solitary'

All players in the room not in the group of the bard, will have a 
tendency to feel the need of traveling alone.  While affected, the victim 
cannot group or follow anyone else, nor can anyone one else follow the victim.
~

#805
-1 'BIRTH OF THE PHOENIX'~
BIRTH OF THE PHOENIX

Syntax: sing 'Birth of the Phoenix'

This song shall summon the egg of a phoenix where it will hatch and called into
the bard's possession.  The bard must maintain the needs of this fragile life
in order for it to grow.  If the bard takes proper care of the phoenix, it will
grow and prosper, forevermore at the service of the bard.  If proper care is
not given, the phoenix shall surely die.  The phoenix will morph twice, before
which you have to constantly feed it when it begins squawking at you.  Once
adult, it does not require the food for the energy it requires to morph.

Once the phoenix is in the adult form, you can order it to ignite:
'order phoenix ignite', at which point the phoenix will burst into a flame of
energy, and combining its life force with yours, and return under the ground
once again waiting for rebirth.
~

#806
-1 CALENDAR MONTH WEEK YEAR DAYS DAY SEASON SEASONS TIME~
CALENDAR MONTH WEEK YEAR DAY DAYS SEASON SEASONS TIME

Days and Months of the Year

The standard week, in use in most of the civilized nations of the
Western Realms, is comprised of six days.

In order, they are:

Airday     --- Work
Fireday    --- Work
Godsday    --- Worship
Waterday   --- Work
Earthday   --- Work
Sixthday   --- Rest and Worship

The year is made up of 12 months, each being 30 days in length.

Starting with the first month, they are:

Month		Season

Jaminatine	Spring
Lojanitine	Spring
Amathetine	Spring
Wynnatine       Low Summer
Rhumatine       Summer
Beronitine      High Summer
Arondatine      Autumn
Hametine        Autumn
Shalmatine      Autumn
Lanatine        Winter
Sythetine       Winter
Rasazratine     Winter
~

#807
-4 cabal~ PATHFINDING~
PATHFINDING (Min 250 cps.)

Syntax: Automatic 

After many years of existence in the wilds of Mirlan the Barbarians have grown
adept at choosing the most effective path to navigate the harsh environments of
the land.  Whether in forest, badlands or in the cliffs, this skill in
pathfinding allows WarLords to travel with practically no additional effort
through any terrain. 

See also: HELP WarLord
~

#808
-1 QREF QUICKREF DEITY DEITIES GODS~
QREF QUCICKREF DEITIES DEITY

                      QUICK REFERENCE

              AL    Spheres of Control               Colors        Symbol          
PRIMAL ONES:
Noirlz        L     Order,Structure,Form             White         Triangle on black field           
Krasq         C     Chaos,Destruction,Ruin           Black         Sold black circle             
Gaemina       N     Nature,Life,Being                Green         Great tree

GREATER DEITIES:
Amathe        NG    Love,Hearth,Healing (Halflings)  Red/Brown     Hearth and fire             
Beronor       NG    Sun,Sky,Weal                     White/Gold    Sunburst
Ejamina       N     Forests,Hunting,Animals          Green/Silver  Drawn bow    
Felana        CG    Air,Clouds,Wind                  White/Blue    Silver cloud against blue         
Ixtaros       CE    War,Slaughter,Vengeance          Red/Bronze    Crossed spears       
Lojani        N     Water,Rain,Rivers                Blue/Green    Waterfall    
Markul        LN    Time,Truth,LAW               Purple/Copper Scales/ hourglass    
Morgorin      NE    Death,Underworld,Woe             Black/Grey    Deaths head (skull)      
Pajumet       CN    Luck,Fate,Misfortune             Red/Silver    Dice and cup         
Sahaeyeh      LN    Earth,Craftsmen,Smithin(Dwarves) Brown/Gold    Hammer/anvil in triangle      
Tzaelcos      CE    Fire,Destruction,Malice          Red/Yellow    Fireball in triangle                
Veshalma      CN    Oceans,Storms,Weather            Blue/Black    Storm cloud & wave             
Wuzamuli      NE    Disease,Pestilence,Famine        Black/Green   Rat       
Wyihemi       NG    Fertility,Birth,Harvest          Green/Brown   Sheaf of grain     

LESSER DEITIES:
Arondos       CG    Arts,Music,Poetry (Elves)        Yellow/Green  Harp or lyre   
Bracc         LE    Winter,Ice                       Blue/Silver   Snowflake                    
Dabyula       LN    Magic,Dreams,Foresight           Red/Purple    Hexagram       
Dormicc       CG    Travels,Adventures ,Quests       Brown/Blue    Staff or boots         
Hoiwinas      CN    Wine,Revelry,Lust                Purple/Silver Grape vine
Imaju         CE    Jealousy,Lies,Deception          Green/White   Adders head      
Jolma         LE    Pain,Suffering,Torture           Grey/Purple   Coiled whip                          
Madshem       NG    Merriment,Friendship,Ale(Gnomes) Yellow/Purple Two tankards     
Moiwen        LG    Spring, Peace                    White/Brown   Laurel wreath       
Rasazra       LG    Purity,Virtue,Sacrifice          White/Silver  Lock and chain                    
Rhuma         N     Trade,Wealth,Merchants           Gold/Grey     Gold wheel or coin               
Syithe        NE    Night,Shadows,Secrets            Black/Purple  Eye open or closed       
Tiradel       LG    Knighthood,Chivalry,Honor        Blue/Gold     Sword          
Ulwarzi       LE    Plots,Assasination,Treachery     Red/Grey      Scroll and knife                
Zarkirond     NE    Greed,Avarice,Thieves            Black/Gold    Gloved hand & coin
~

#809
-1 ACADEMY~
The Academy...

The Academy was set up to cater for students between 5th and 25th ranks. 
It is intended as an extension to mud school and the newbie channel. 
Academy teachers will answer your questions and from time to time will 
arrange lessons to take place within the academy walls.

The academy can be found by going to Central Commons in Ulsylm, then 
3 south, 2 west, south. 

The Basics :-

The academy is a clan and as such is subject to the same syntaxes used 
for clans. The main commands are : 

who clan - this will tell you which other members of the academy are 
present in the lands. All students have an [I] before their name and 
teachers, immortals will have either [T], [E], or [L] 

cc <speech> - this allows you to communicate on the clan chat with all 
other members. Remember anything said here will be heard by students, 
teachers, and immortals alike.

 Rules of the Clan Chat :- 

The clan chat is intended to be used liberally. Unlike the newbie chat 
all speech must be kept IC (In Character). This chat is used to request
answers and lessons for students, and to arrange lessons and times for 
teachers.

You are expected to be courteous to teachers at all times regardless of 
any racial/alignment differences and not to interrupt while they are 
speaking. Any spamming or abuse on the Academy chat will result in you 
being removed from the academy and punished.

The clan chat must NOT be used for arranging groups, general chit-chat, 
locating potential victims, or divulging quest information. 

Academy Rules :- 

1) Students will only be in the academy if they are taking their first 
    look round or are participating in a lesson.
2) Students must not be found sleeping, lurking, hiding, or fleeing into
   the Academy.
3) There will be NO fighting in the academy.
4) Teachers are to be treated with respect ALWAYS.
5) Do not interrupt teachers while they are teaching unless instructed to.
6) Do not use pointless emotes during lessons.
7) Pupils must not use emotes on teachers - e.g. slap, hug, kiss, tickle.
8) All students are expected to be completely visible when in the academy. 

Anybody found breaking these rules will have their hall pass revoked and/or 
will be punished. 
~

#810
-1 vote~
VOTE

Syntax: vote
        vote list
        vote create <vote> 

GENERAL INFO.

A voting system to allow members of various factions, cities or cabal to make
decisions affecting them.  If you enter the lands while a vote exists that
awaits your decision you will be automatically placed in a voting booth where
you can make your decision.  You can skip this process a limited number of times
using the "quit" command, but eventually you will have to vote to proceed. 

Alternatively you can enter the vote booth at any time in the game by typing 
"vote", at which point you will enter the vote booth and proceed along the same
lines. 

SPECIAL POSITIONS

  Votes of Elders and Leaders of organization to which the vote pertains have
extra "weight" and will count more then usual share.  Furthermore Leaders have
the power of veto for any vote concerning their organization.

See also: CABAL VOTES, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#811
-1 'Religion Chance'~
The concept of random occurrence swings forever a heavy pendulum in the
mind of those who follow the path of Chance.  Random forces deciphering your
next adventure, the next being you meet, the next victory you lose or
tragedy you face.  Random forces push you the four winds, towards your
dream, the main goal you wish to attain in life.

SEE ALSO: DISCORD, GREED, GUILE 
~

#812
-1 Discord~
DISCORD

You are violent and destructive, a menace to society, and hated by the
masses.  Your parents never disciplined you as a child, and you've grown up
to be an irresponsible, violent plague.  You don't like laws or authority in
general, and you'd rather beat up an innocent child than give money to the
poor.  

The followers of discord are shunned by most of society, and range from
petty vandals looking for a cheap thrill to cruel beasts in search of world
destruction.  They generally resort to violence as a prime solution to all
problems, and tend to reject unity and balance.  


SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, GREED, GUILE 
~

#813
-1 Greed~
GREED

Gold, jewels, power, beauty - these words leave a sweet taste of lust in the
mouth of the being who desires much.  His greed drives him through life,
seeking appeasement and satisfaction, a slight sate for the want that so
hungrily consumes him.  A life led by selfish goals and pushed in a
direction that will better the wealth and prestige of the being that chooses
to enter the gilded cage of Greed.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, DISCORD, GUILE 
~

#814
-1 Guile~
GUILE

Liars, cheaters, and stealers of Mirlan unite and rejoice, for there is
finally a path in which you can follow in life.  Your tricks and pranks
finally make way for purpose and reason and you are finally accepted for
what you do in life.  So gamble and drink, lie and steal, murder and purge! 

For on this path, no one judges you, but Chance.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE, DISCORD, GREED 
~

#815
-1 'Religion Life'~
LIFE

Goodness and Light.  These are the things that the followers of the Path of
Light idealize.  The eradication of evil is a war that has been fought on
thousands of battlefields for thousands of years, and will no doubt be
fought until the end of time.  One who walks this path is dedicated to the
cause of good, and works whole-heartedly against evil in their own way. 
While some take up a blade and strike down the minions of darkness, others
heal the wounded and weary.  Others still travel the lands preaching the
ways of peace, denouncing violence as the root of all of the suffering in
the world.  Regardless of their means, they strive to create a world of
purity, a land devoid of wickedness and wrongdoing.  

SEE ALSO: COMPASSION, PURITY, TRANQUILITY 
~

#816
-1 compassion~
COMPASSION

You have spent your entire life witnessing first hand the follies of war. 
The price of conflict.  Bloodied bodies, people on the verge of death from
horrid ailments, the crazed lunatics whose minds have been poisoned.  You
have seen all of this, and have sworn to put an end to it.  A divine healer,
or just a soul bent on mercy, you live your life to save others'.  Yours is
a gift best given to others, and better still given freely.  

Every war has its casualties, and the campaign against evil is no exception.
And each day, many succumb to the plagues and diseases spread by those who
walk the path of death.  Regardless of their outlook on war, those who walk
this path all have one thing in common: A love for life, and the desire to
preserve it.  Whether they convert divine energy into blessings of healing
and life, or are merely a friendly ear to speak to, these souls remain true
to life, and do their own part to reclaim Mirlan for the cause of Good.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, PURITY, TRANQUILITY 
~

#817
-1 Purity~
PURITY

Evil surrounds you.  It is everywhere you look.  The darkness has cast a
grim shadow over everything you hold dear.  The time has come that something
is done about it.  Others waste time and energy in talk, or ignoring it
altogether.  That's why you are different.  Take up arms, and the wicked
shall fall in piles at your feet.  Let them embrace the death they embody,
and save Mirlan in the process.  

The Way of Purity sees evil as a cancer and use arms to remove it,
permanently.  They have sworn their sword arm as the hope of life.  No
longer standing idle as their world crumbles around them, they have sounded
the trumpet of war, and raised the standard, charging headlong into the
fray.  Theirs is a path of war, constant vigilance, for if one ceases to
swing the sword for but a moment, he allows the darkness to advance.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, COMPASSION, TRANQUILITY 
~

#818
-1 Tranquility~
TRANQUILITY

You have never hefted a weapon against another before and you aren't about
to start now.  There are many reasons why people like you exist.  Either
your respect for life is to great to bring an end to another's, or merely
the notion that violence accomplishes nothing, except reducing yourself to
the level of the enemy.  Differences can be resolved through talk, or other
means, but violence begets violence, and fighting with swords and magic only
produces more.  

There are many means to achieve a goal.  One need not force it with the
point of a dagger, or the head of a mace.  Those who do so are foolish, and
see only an easy means to an end.  But life is not always the flattest road;
there are infinite hills and turns that one must negotiate to reach the end
of it.  There is work ahead for he who wishes to eliminate evil, whether
those who walk this path attempt to quell the ways of the wicked with words,
or simply perform so many acts of generosity that evil has no room to exist.

SEE ALSO: RELIGION LIFE, COMPASSION, PURITY 
~

#819
-1 'Religion Equilibrium'~
EQUILIBRIUM

There are many things in life that are quite clearly defined.  Good and
Evil.  Order and Chaos.  But regardless of what you look at, there is always
a fuzzy area that lay between the two opposites.  Whether balance represents
making sure that the balance between good and evil does not stray too far to
either side, or merely not caring about either, those who follow this path,
have chosen to walk their own road.  But, as is everything else, even the
Path of Equilibrium is divided into different factions, each claiming what
true neutrality is.  But as much as they may argue, each of them has lived a
life devoid of clear-cut boundaries.  

SEE ALSO: ORDER, NEUTRALITY, CHAOS 
~

#820
-1 order~
ORDER

Without law, you are nothing more than the animals.  Slave to Disorder.  Law
and Order are the only thing that raises us above them, good and evil does
not matter; all are the same before it.  Ruling with an iron fist or
creating a civilization that favors neither good nor evil, the law is a tool
to control, to protect, and to gain.  Use it at your whim, but do not falter.

The world is ripe with disorder.  Order is the shield that protects the
world's population from destruction.  Before it's blind eye, all are equal. 
The immoral murderer and the pious preacher; all will benefit, and heed,
it's guidelines.  It favors nothing, but elevates itself above all.  It
looks down on none, but is superior to everything else.  It is the only
thing that matters.  But, just as laws are tools, so shall people use them
to their advantage.  Many who live the Way of Order know what they may or
may not be able to get away with, and often corrupt the law to further their
own goals, be it for good or evil.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, NEUTRALITY, CHAOS 
~

#821
-1 Neutrality~
NEUTRALITY

Law, Order.  Good, Evil.  Extremes that when left unsupervised, wield
terrible power.  When the balance swings too far to one side, it is your job
to correct it and weigh them a bit more in favor of the underdog, for when
one side tips the scales beyond aid, it will end all that is known.  You are
a servant of the scales, aiding those who are outnumbered.  Or perhaps you
just serve one thing, yourself.  Regardless of your views, you favor neither
law nor chaos, light nor darkness.  But one thing is consistent, while you
walk the lands, the balance shall be maintained, and if need be, defended. 

While there are many who serve established moral factions, those who walk
the Way of Neutrality, serve everything that lay between them all.  They
live in a gray world, ignoring the boundaries of white and black, casting a
protective eye into everything.  Should any extreme begin to gain ground
over the other, neutrality steps in, and rights the numbers, maintaining the
balance between the two.  But then again, there are simply some who do not
care about good or evil, order or discord.  And to these, the way of
neutrality embraces them.  Depending on their mood, their actions lead to
any of the extremes, but call none of them home.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, ORDER, CHAOS 
~

#822
-1 Chaos~
CHAOS

Freedom.  A life devoid of rules, you live according to your own whim, and
nothing else.  Life is as simple as you wish it to be, or as difficult.  But
why would anyone want life to be hard?  If that were the case, you would be
trundling along with the zealots.  You live your life by the day, making no
plans, and heeding nothing.  There are some that call you crazy.  You do
what you wish, when you wish.   

Those who walk this way hold no delusions about their moral standing.  Their
behavior is constantly changing, ever altering.  A friendly ear one moment,
and a angry, bitter scowl the next.  People must choose their words
carefully when speaking to them, because you never know how they are going
to react.  There are not many words that can sum up the behavior of one who
follows this way, but it is often said that the only thing consistent about
them is that they are not consistent.  

See also: RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM, ORDER, NEUTRALITY 

See also: HELP ORDER COMMAND.
~

#823
-1 'religion knowledge'~
KNOWLEDGE

The world belongs to those who are able to know its secrets.  Knowledge is
the key to true power, and those who walk the Path of Knowledge are aware of
this.  They have dedicated their entire existence to one thing, and one
thing only.  Knowledge.  But it what one does with their wisdom that makes
the followers of the different ways unique.  There are some, obsessed with
the accumulation of arcane secrets, twisting and manipulating them to weave
the most powerful spells in Mirlan.  There are also those who focus upon
martial concepts; war, battle, and tactics.  And yet still those who devote
their lives to the preservation and education of the wild, becoming the
reason that so many dread to trek into the forest.  Whatever the reason or
subject of their intellectual pursuits, those that follow this path should
be assumed all that relates to it.  

SEE ALSO: MYSTIC, COMBAT, NATURE 
~

#824
-1 Mystic~
MYSTIC

The mind.  It is the most powerful weapon in the world.  To those who know
it's secrets.  Harnessing powers beyond comprehension to many, you are able
to invoke columns of flame, conjure fields of energy to shield you from
harm, or even take control of another's mind.  There seems no limit to what
you are capable of, but it is not without price.  You have dedicated your
life on the study of the mystic, all things arcane and divine.  Whatever the
source, this power has come through years of hard work, and diligent study. 
Your chambers are lined with tomes and ancient texts, but your mind has
remembered all of their contents.  

The Way of the Mystic is often a path of loneliness, it's members more often
caressing a book, or spending their nights in the company of a scroll lit by
a candle.  Their existence is focused on the assimilation of all things
arcane.  They have done their research, attended their lectures, and
sometimes have been given the gifts directly from the Gods themselves.  With
their wisdom fresh on the mind, they use this knowledge to exercise their
will.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, COMBAT, NATURE 
~

#825
-1 Combat~
COMBAT

The life of a warrior.  You have been one since you can remember.  Maybe a
few too many blows to the head, but it is all that you have known.  A weapon
in your hands is an extension of your anger, a field before you is terrain
to be exploited to your advantage in an upcoming fray.  Some of these tricks
and concepts you have learned through formal study, but most of them have
been gained the hard way; broken bones and periods of unconsciousness.  

Battle tactics, weapon training, and the like are the bread and butter of
those who walk the Way of Combat.  Warriors without equal, they have fought
campaigns still remembered, and lived to tell the tale.  But from all the
death and destruction they have been witness to, they have taken with them
wisdom and experience; two things invaluable when you live life for and by
the sword.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, MYSTIC, NATURE 
~

#826
-1 Nature~
NATURE

None are so at home within the wild as you.  You have been raised among the
trees, and from the sway of their limbs, you have learned that which will
sustain you, and that which will kill you.  Within your forest home, you are
master, and there is nothing that eludes your attention.  Much like the
creatures that you share the forest with, it is kill or be killed, and you
know how to do it.  

Rangers and druids are most often followers of the Way of Nature for obvious
reasons, but just because they wield abilities granted to them by Gaeamina, it
does not exclude others.

All of these have discovered the secrets concealed within the grass, hidden
within the brush, and cloaked within the canopy.  With these at their beckon
call, they make formidable opponents.  

SEE ALSO: RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, MYSTIC, COMBAT 
~

#827
-1 religion deity~
RELIGION

In life, you shall devote yourself to a particular god.  You will not select
a patron deity directly, instead choosing a Path best representing your
belief.  Based upon your choices, a deity that best suits your desires and
beliefs will be assigned to you.  This is something taken very seriously,
and one should do their best to represent the God they devote to with the
greatest of respect.  

There are a total of six religions, each subcategorized into three ways. 
	Chance		Death		Equilibrium 
	Knowledge	Life		Faith 

SEE ALSO: RELIGION CHANCE,    RELIGION DEATH, RELIGION EQUILIBRIUM 
	  RELIGION KNOWLEDGE, RELIGION LIFE,  RELIGION FAITH 
~

#828
-1 'Religion Death'~
RELIGION DEATH

Death...  The only certain thing within the world.  Those who walk this path
give their praise to an unknown force, for all of those who fall victim to
it, do not live to tell their tale.  The darkness has woven an opaque web
around itself shielding it from prying eyes, and for good reason.  So long
as the forces of good exists, so shall the armies of Darkness.  And so long
as those of the shadows walk Mirlan's soil, all need fear the night.  

SEE ALSO: SCOURGE, CYCLE, NECROPSY 
~

#829
-1 Scourge~
SCOURGE

 You have always had a cruel streak.  Inflicting pain upon others has always
gotten a rise out of you, and as you aged, the hatred you have for others has
grown with you.  You skill passion for inflicting pain is only surpassed by
your skill at doing it.  You bring pain and death in your wake as you cut a
bloody swathe through your foes. 

The walkers of this way are as many as those that they prey upon.  No caste,
race, or creed can claim any majority of them, as they come from every
religious or financial category that exists.  But one thing is consistent
among them.  A desire to destroy, and the means to do it. 

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, CYCLE, NECROPSY
~

#830
-1 NECROPSY~
NECROPSY

Everyone has their hobby.  As a youth, you can remember poking the dead
bird you found with a stick, fixated on the concept of dead things.  You
matured, but so did your pre-occupation with the lifeless.  Prodding sticks
turned to laboratory equipment as your thirst for knowledge of death
changed to an obsession.  You have searched for years for thick dusty tomes
and ancient molded manuscripts, and your labor has rewarded you well.
you know many things that none else do, and soon...  Soon the means to
escape death shall be yours.

It would seem that every path of magic possesses its own sages, and the
path of Death is no exception.  Those who wield it's terrible powers
do so for many reasons.  Perhaps they seek a way to cheat death.  To become
undying.  Or maybe they just have grown too weary of mortal companionship
and seek to raise the dead and make their own friend.  Whatever the
reasons, there is no doubting that their work has paid off, and knowledge
truly is power. 

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, SCOURGE, CYCLE
~

#831
-1 Cycle~
CYCLE

Death is the great beyond.  Once you pass through it's arches, never again will
you return.  Or will you?  The cycle of life is a cycle of death.  From death
have you came, and so shall you return to it.  There is no avoiding your fate,
so why bother trying.  You perpetuate the cycle by bringing death to those
whose time has run out, albeit in your eyes, or those of your God. 

Those of the Cycle do not kill out of pure lust or acquisition of power.  They
do so to reclaim souls to add to the pyre, and perpetuate the endless cycle of
death and life.  To attempt to cheat death is folly, and so long as these
people exist, it can be most dangerous as well. 

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION DEATH, SCOURGE, NECROPSY
~

#832
-1 'Religion Faith'~
FAITH

If there is one thing that unites every being in Mirlan, it is the concept of
faith; Placing trust, veneration, or even love in a being whose power
exceeds that of any other.  But not all love, worship or even believe in
the concept of Supreme Beings.  While some blindly place their faith in the
unseen, others deny the existence of them, deeming them little more than
mortals with an ego.  Regardless of their views, faith is, and always will
be a integral part of life.  

SEE ALSO:  ATHEISM, AGNOSTIC, CHURCH
~

#833
-1 Atheism~
ATHEISM

Gods...  You have seen these 'Gods' running around like they own the joint. 
Nothing more than you...  Except maybe a tad bit stronger.  Theirs is a
power that anyone can achieve.  You've seen it before, you'll no doubt see
it again.  It's just a matter of time.  Some alchemical formula?  Maybe once
you have perfected skill with every known weapon?  Who knows?  It is the
next stage of life.  It just has to be attained.  

With each passing year, every mortal gets more and more powerful.  And so it
is with the Gods.  They're nothing more than everyone else.  They just have
found the secrets, and moved on.  Was not everyone a child once?  And when
they were, did not your father seem immortal?  Of course.  You have just
grown up.  In the cosmic scheme of things, you are still but a child, and to
get to the higher plateau, you just have to grow up again.

NOTICE:  THOSE WHO CHOOSE THIS FAITH WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMUNE. 

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, AGNOSTIC, CHURCH
~

#834
-1 Agnostic~
AGNOSTIC 

 Faith is for the weak.  People tell of the grandeur of these Gods, but
you know the truth, the wool hasn't been pulled over your eyes.  While you
do acknowledge the existence of these higher powers, you owe them no love. 
They use mortals as pawns, in a cosmic chess game.  They use you as tools to
gain what they wish.  Spoiled brats is what they are.  Too used to getting
there own way.  Separate yourself from them, sever all ties.  You want
power?  You want favor?  Rely on none but yourself, and show the heavens
that their aid is both unwanted, and unnecessary. 

Everyone is a tool, just most people don't know it.  There are some who
claim to have their eyes open, but they're the blindest of them all.  If
they only saw that the power was already within them, they could cast off
their shackles and be free of Immortal Will.  The Gods resort to underhanded
tricks and the strategic manipulation of mortal men and women to achieve their
goals.  Is this not slavery?  The time of slavery has ended, and the age of
true freedom is at hand.   

NOTICE:  THOSE WHO CHOOSE THIS FAITH WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMUNE.

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, ATHEISM, CHURCH
~

#835
-1 Church~
CHURCH 

There are some who call you a fool for your steadfast devotion to an unseen
entity.  Let them talk, it makes no difference to you.  You have felt the
the touch of a God upon your soul, and you there is no denying that.  They
will see the follies of their ways, when they pass from this world.  The One
has been with you all of your life.  When you uttered your first words, He
was there moving your lips.  The first time you cast a spell, he imparted
his essence into you and made the incantations bear fruit.  Your eyes are
open, you may not see him, but you see his might in everything you behold.  

The Church of the One relies on faith placed blindly.  Only by venerating
that which you've no proof truly exists, you demonstrate your devotion. 
Only then can true power be felt.  The cynics say that the unseen, unfelt,
and unheard does not exist, rather venerating that which can be experienced
directly.  But just because one cannot see the air does not mean it does not
exist, you must simply accept it as truth.  Let the sheep graze mindlessly
in the field, but when the time for the shearing comes, you will not be left
out in the cold. 

SEE ALSO:  RELIGION FAITH, ATHEISM, AGNOSTIC
~

#836
-1 'master questor' questor~
MASTER QUESTOR

Syntax: forfeit questor : forfeits the master questor status 

  The rewards of completing quests are many, from gold and experience 
to powerful items and practice or train bonuses.  Yet those who truly
commit themselves to exploration and discovery of more quests then any
other gain extra recognition as the Master Questor of Mirlan. 

A character recognized such gains not only discounts in various stores
due to his fame, but will also heal and regenerate faster then his less
fortunate companions.

 The title of Master Questor will be assigned to the character whom holds
the most permanent quests in the lands.  In case of a tie for the spot
the title will last for no more then two weeks at a time for given player. 

See also: HELP QUEST
~

#837
-1 mounted 'mounted combat'~
MOUNTED COMBAT

Syntax:  automatic

  While the use various horses and beasts for travel is common in the
lands of Mirlan, the skills to actual carry meaningful combat while
mounted upon a steed are all but unknown.  Yet those whom mastery this
fine art can enter combat upon their steeds and thus benefit from their
stability as well as strike terrible blows at their victims while charging
with a pole weapon.

See also: HELP MOUNT
~

#838
-1 'spirit bind'~
SPIRIT BIND

Syntax: commune 'spirit bind' corpse

  By exercising their power over the spiritual world, a shaman can
bind a soul of recently deceased to do their bidding for a short while.
When this prayer is completed, the spirit that still inhabits a fresh
corpse will be bound to the necromancer and attack any whom endanger him.
~

#839
-1 mount~
MOUNT

Syntax:  
mount	 	: Mounts a rented or summoned creature (mounted affect).
mount <target>	: Mounts a creature present in a room dismount.

  The land of Mirlan is large indeed, and many a sole has been worn out upon
its paths and roads.  To ease the burden of travel many have begun to use
various creatures to ride upon their backs.  While mounted you will experience
a minor movement bonus and more importantly be able to recover your stamina
much faster then on foot.  Note that if you are summoned, or otherwise forcibly
moved, you will be automatically dismounted.

 Note that while common mounts give benefits which are below that of an average
flight spell, the duration of their stay is far long. Those mounts that posses
ability to fly (manticore, Pegasus, nightmares etc.) give the user the same
movement reduction as a flight spell, without protection against trip.

See also: HELP MOUNTED COMBAT
~

#840
-1 goliath~
GOLIATH

Syntax commune Goliath

The legend speaks of this mighty war-horse as a loyal companion to the great
Knight Delvyn before his eventual corruption and fall from grace.  To this
day, those whom are pure of heart and full of valor may call upon this
mighty steed to carry them upon its back.  Unlike mortal mounts Goliath will
always stay near its master and never be separated.   

See also: HELP MOUNT, MOUNTED COMBAT 
~

#841
-1 cabal~
CABAL

 WHAT IS A CABAL:  

A Cabal is an organization of elite individuals which has a specific goal,
agenda and exotic powers granted to them by the Immortals.  They offer a
chance for deeper, more advanced role-play, new friends, opportunity to
ascend in cabal ranks and gain respect, power, and loyalty of their members.
The Cabals of Mirlan are for the most part, player controlled, from
inducting new members, to forming alliances or declaring vendettas against
other cabals.  Your chances for induction and future possibilities in
them, are dictated solely by your relationship with its members and their
opinion of you.

Each Cabal fathers a clan whose ideals are identical of the formal Cabal.
It is from this clan that the members of the cabal are recruited.  Aspiring
members join the clans and are selected from the pool by their individual
worth, which is reflected in Clan Points (CPs).  The members of
the cabal are expected to maintain close ties with their fledgling clan 

`!HOW TO APPLY``:  

In order to apply to a Cabal of your choice, first use the "help cabals" 
and "help <cabal name>" commands to check the general theme, and entrance 
requirements and make sure you are allowed to join.  When you feel ready, 
you must then find the Cabal's clan HQ.  Based mostly within the confines
of the three great city-states, their locations are considered secret and
not to be divulged.  Part of the application process is locating these
clans by yourself.

 Once you have located the Clan HQ, a processing fee of 30,000 gold pieces
is needed to induct you into the Clan.  The clan acts as a recruitment pool
for the actual cabals, which watch over the members and groom prospective
inductees for their aspired position. 

During their apprenticeship in the clan, each member has the chance to earn
clan points by completing various tasks, as well as for excelling in
roleplaying.  They can also lose Clan Points for failing to display the proper
effort.  Clan Points are a measurement of that member's potential worth to the 
cabal, and inductees are selected according to how many Clan Points they
possess.  If you wish to graduate from the clan and become a full member of the
cabal, you will need to excel above and beyond your clan mates. 

Once you have been selected for induction by the cabal's Immortal leader,
you will need to compose a well written, formatted application addressed to
the cabal name.  The application subject MUST INCLUDE words "cabal application"
or it will not be considered.  The members of that cabal will then vote on
your application, and if successful, you will be inducted into the organization
at the rank of Inductee(0).

Example: 

Application to LAW 
Application subject Application to LAW Cabal 

See also: HELP APPLICATION, CABALS, CABAL RULES, CABAL COMMANDS,
              CABAL POINTS, CABAL POWERS, CABAL VOTES, CABAL RANK,
              CABAL ROOMS, VOTE, BUILD, PACT, TRADE, ARMIES, CLAN

~

#842
-4 cabal~ LAW~
Following powers are available to LAW:
  Initiate:     Judge, Wanted
  Observer:     Third Eye
  Deputy:       Raise Morale 

Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#843
-1 SENTINEL~
SENTINEL

Those members of LAW whom dedicate their lives to protecting the lawful
cities of Mirlan from dangers of crime are known as Sentinels of LAW. 
They pride themselves upon their abilities to remain watchful and diligent
at all times within their cities, and their primary purpose has always been
that of passive defense.  Escorted by Captains of Guard clad in the heaviest
of armor, they sit within their watchtowers bringing peace and security to
the cities under their guard.  
~

#844
-4 Enforcer~ SENTINEL~
Following additional powers are available to Sentinels of LAW:
  Patrol:	Guard Captain,
  Sentinel:	Watchtower, Ensnare
  Judge:	Rally Call
  Arbiter:	Elite Guard Captain 

Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#845
-1 ENFORCER~
ENFORCER

A law without means to enforce it is worth less then the parchment upon
which it was written.  And so the Enforcers of LAW travel the land to
make sure that those whom have crossed the Laws within the areas patrolled
by LAW do not escape its iron grasp.  Capable of commanding ferocious
hounds and using variety of skills and powers to track and incapacitate the
criminals, the Enforcer is most at home outside the cities of Mirlan and
hot on the trail of a wanted criminal.  

See also: HELP LAW, CABAL, CABALS 
~

#846
-4 Magistrate~ ENFORCER~
Following additional powers are available to Enforcers of LAW:
  Tracker:		Hound Call
  Enforcer:		Hunt, Bolo
  Executioner:  	Observer Call
  Arbiter:		LAW Sigil

Use help command for further information on each of these powers.
~

#847
-1 judge~
JUDGE

Syntax: judge <character>

In order to pass a proper sentence, a LAW member requires means of
assessing the criminal's record, and the maximum sentence allowed by the
Royal's of the city in which crime was committed.  This command is special
in that it requires no scalps to be used.   

See also: HELP LAW
~

#848
-4 cabal~ WANT~
WANT

Syntax: want <character>

When you have witnessed a crime in a lawful area which prosecutes this crime
("law" command) you may use this command to mark a player as a Criminal, and
to be hunted down and captured by any LAW, and any creatures that aid them. 

BEWARE:  In order to be not penalized for wrongful accusation:
  1) Make sure that the area in which the crime was committed is Lawful. ("law")
  2) Make sure that the crime is not tolerated in the area. ("law")
  3) Make a LAW was in the area and heard the yell or witnessed the crime.
  4) In case of weapons not sheathed you MUST look at the person first. 

See also: HELP JUDGE, LAW
~

#849
-4 cabal~ 'THIRD EYE'~
THIRD EYE

Syntax: cast 'third eye'

 Faced with increased use of magic in the ranks of criminals, the LAW
Cabal developed its own techniques of focusing the mind and senses of its
members to detect an invisible objects.  When cast this spell will allow the
user to see anything cloak in invisibility spell for extended duration. 
~

#850
-4 Enforcer~ 'GUARD CAPTAIN'~
GUARD CAPTAIN

Syntax:  cast 'guard captain'

 In order to assure safety and fairness the LAW cabal assigns its
Sentinels an officer as escort.  These Guard Captains are specially trained
to detect and capture criminals, and will periodically check for any suspicious
activity in the area, or when the "apprehend" order is given.  If a criminal is
found, the guard will automatically engage them, adjusting in rank to match the
criminals, or its owner's whichever is lower.   

While the Captain is extremely resilient, when he is killed you will be unable
to request a new officer until a suitable replacement is found for you.  The
Captain will always assist you in combat within lawful area, however when
outside he will only engaged criminals.   

See also: HELP ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN, APPREHEND
~

#851
-4 cabal~ APPREHEND~
APPREHEND

Syntax: apprehend

  This command will order any lawful creatures (i.e. Guard Captains and Hounds)
to attack any criminals present.  It has no cost. 

See also:  HELP GUARD CAPTAIN, HOUND CALL
~

#852
-4 Enforcer~ ENSNARE~
ENSNARE

Syntax: ensnare <victim>

By mobilizing a large force of patrols and guards to secure the area, a
Sentinel of LAW can for limited time trap a criminal within its limits. 
The guards will prevent the criminal from leaving on foot, while powerful
wards of entrapment ensure that the victim cannot leave through magical
means.   

Note that if you leave the area, the guards will disperse and the criminal
will be able to leave freely.  
~

#853
-4 Enforcer~ WATCHTOWER~
WATCHTOWER

Syntax watchtower 

The greatest enemy of LAW has always been those whom hide in the
shadows of cities, striking only when a weakness was obvious.  Seeing their
numbers dwindle as assassins, and master thieves took bloody toll upon their
ranks of Sentinel, the Arbiter of LAW hired the great dwarven smiths
to design and construct special watchtowers which would ensure their members
safety.  

Easy to construct, yet extremely resilient and powerful the dwarven
watchtowers allow the Sentinel of LAW to safely keep watch over their
cities.  Safe from prying eyes, and protected from unexpected attacks the
Sentinels were once again free to concentrate upon their duties.  
~

#854
-4 Enforcer~ 'RALLY CALL'~
RALLY CALL

Syntax: rally

 Commanding great presence and possessing powerful charisma, a Sentinel
Judge is capable of giving a signal to LAW troops in area.  When the
notes of the LAW war horn pierce any lawful area, these troops will
rally to the call and being to scour the area for any criminals.  Note that
when multiple rally calls are given, the rate of troops being rallied will
be cumulative, while the total present in area is not.  The LAW Arbiter
is capable of summoning more troops and faster then any Judge.  
~

#855
-4 Enforcer~ 'ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN'~
ELITE GUARD CAPTAIN

Syntax: cast 'guard captain'

 An Elite Guard Captain summoned by LAW Arbiter lacks any drawbacks
of his mundane counterpart.  They will always assist their leader, and
even occasionally step in and take blows meant for the Arbiter. 

See also: HELP GUARD CAPTAIN
~

#856
-4 Magistrate~ 'HOUND CALL'~
HOUND CALL

Syntax: cast 'hound call'
        hound <stay/come/hunt/coward>

 The Enforcers of LAW are known to employ huge wolfhounds to track
the fleeing criminals across the lands of Aabarahn.  While lacking the
resilience of Guard Captains, the hounds posses great speed and agility
often overpowering their victim with sheer ferocity of their attacks.  Much
like the Guard Captain, the hound will adjust in its power to match the rank
of its victim or its owner whichever is lower.  Much like its Sentinel
counterpart, the hound will assist its owner only against criminals, or
while in a lawful area.  The Elders of Enforcer are assisted anytime. 

The hound can be given number of orders using "hound" command.
~

#857
-4 Magistrate~ hunt~
HUNT Syntax: hunt <victim>

By using subtle clues left by a passage of criminal, the Enforcers are
capable of tracking the direction in which the victim has left.  However
this skill is not infallible, and if the trail is cold, or the victim is
using magical means to shield his location the results may be all butuseless.  

~

#858
-4 Magistrate~ bolo~
BOLO

Syntax: bolo <victim>  :  throw at particular target
        bolo           :  throw at current enemy/criminal 

  When the inevitable combat and chase ensues, Enforcers use these heavy
spiked weights joined with a rope to hamper or incapacitate their targets.
When hurled with great speed and accuracy, it is capable of crushing the
victim's legs or windpipe resulting in eventual suffocation and
unconsciousness.  

When the command is used without target, it will result in the bolo being
thrown at current opponent OR at any criminal in combat with the hound.  

See also HELP HOUND CALL
~

#859
-4 Magistrate~ 'OBSERVER CALL'~
OBSERVER CALL

Syntax: cast 'observer call'

  In the times when one must fight fire with fire and so the LAW Observers
were born.  Trained from thieves and assassins who joined the side of Law,
these shadowy man and women have but one role to fulfill:  Remain out of sight
and report any criminal activity in area.  
~

#860
-4 Magistrate~ 'LAW SIGIL'~
LAW SIGIL

Syntax: cast 'justice sigil'

To this day the specific powers of this enchantment are unknown but to the
Leader of LAW: The Arbiter. 
~

#861
-1 crimes~
CRIMES

Severity	Allowed penalties
--------------------------------------------------
Allowed:		Not a crime, cannot be wanted for.
Petty:			Normal, Bail 
Severe:			Normal, Bail, Extended
Felony:			Normal, Bail, Extended, Execution
Atrocity:		Always Executed 

See also: HELP LAW, NORMAL, BAIL, EXTENDED, EXECUTION
~

#862
-1 'CABAL COMMANDS' INFO JOIN CHAT 'CABAL CHAT' CABALCHAT DONATE SPONSOR ROOMS
    PROMOTION MAP~
CABAL COMMANDS

Syntax: cb			: cabal talk
	cabal info		: Offers your cabal's economic status
	cabal info <cabal>	: Offers intelligence on other cabals
	cabal rooms		: Shows info on you rooms and powers
	cabal promotion		: Shows requirements for your next promotion
	cabal sponsor <person>  : Sponsors a character for entrance
	cabal join <subcabal>	: Joins a subcabal once at proper rank
	cabal leave		: REMOVES you from the cabal
	cabal map		: Shows a map of your cabal
	cabal donate		: Donate cps to cabal (at 50% ratio)
	build			: Enters the room builder
	vote			: vote on or create votes

These commands deal with workings of your own cabal, and offer various
information to allow you to function effectively.  The "sponsor" command
is usable only if your cabal has decided to use the sponsor induction
system. You may "join"  subcabal once you are high enough cabal rank
to make this choice.  This is usually but not always offered near the
Veteran rank equivalent in the cabal.

The "donate" command allows you to donate your own cp's towards cabal 
coffers.  You lose 50% of the amount donated in the process, and cannot
donate cp's to reach an amount over 500 cp's in cabal coffers. 

See also: HELP CABAL, CABAL POWERS, BUILD, VOTE
~

#863
-1 'CABAL POWERS'~
CABAL POWERS

The cabals of Mirlan have all developed various powers intrinsic 
to their own goals, patrons, and believes.  The various powers and 
abilities become available as a member rises in cabal ranks, and
most consume cabal points when used.  The cost for the ability is
visible on the "spell" screen for spells, but can only be noticed
by experience for skills. 

If you do not have enough cabal points to use a skill, or you do not
have the minimum amount of cabal points required to being to use
the power, it will be highlighted in read on "skills" and "spells"
screen.  A cabal power highlighted in such way will behave as if you
had no proficiency in it. 

Any cabal ability available after the first cabal rank are provided
by specific rooms or buildings that must be constructed by the cabal
before the power becomes available.

See also: HELP CABAL POINTS, BUILD, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#864
-1 'CABAL POINTS' CP CPS~
CABAL POINTS

  Your measure of success and usefulness to a cabal is measured 
in Cabal Points or CP's for short.  Each cabal has its own currency
of cabal points and rewards its members with them for various
actions beneficial to a cabal.  You also gain a small amount of
cp's for merely being present in the lands. The exact amount varies
depending on buildings your cabal has constructed, if it is
engaged in a Vendetta against another cabal and if it is a Royal House
with a Lawful city.  You may check the exact amount of cp's gained over 
time using "worth" command. 

See also: SUPPORT, CABAL POWERS, WORTH
~

#865
-1 'CABAL VOTES' 'CABAL VOTE'~
CABAL VOTES

Syntax: vote create <vote>
	vote target <target info>
	vote subject <subject>
	vote <clear/show/format/send/send urgent> 

Vote Target: Sets the additional target information for the vote.  This may be
             another cabal's name, type of pact to create, a members name etc. 

Vote Edit: Enters the text editor to allow you to enter text to be shown 
           with the vote.  This is similar to contents of a note, and 
           should offer information about your vote.  For details on how 
           to use the editor see "help editor"

Vote Send: Deducts the cost in cps for the vote from your and cabal's coffers, 
	   and sends it to be voted on.  The vote will be evaluated and decided
           when its duration expires or enough members vote to create a
           majority.  You may send a vote with urgency by paying extra cp's to
           cut the wait before its evaluation.

Note: For purpose and targets of each vote see HELP VOTE LIST 

See also: HELP EDITOR, CABAL COMMANDS, VOTE, VOTE LIST
~

#866
-1 'CABAL RANKS' 'CABAL RANK'~
CABAL RANKS

The cabals follow a rank system where a member slowly moves up within the
cabal hierarchy as he or she is promoted by their peers.  The cabals have
various titles to denoted their member's status, which can be seen on
"whois" command.  The default cabal ranks are as follows:  

(I)nductee, (M)ember, (V)eteran, (T)rusted, (E)lder, (L)eader 

In order to be promoted or demoted, someone in the cabal must create
a promotion or demotion vote for you.  If the passes you will ascend
to your new rank.

See also: HELP CABAL VOTES
~

#867
-1 BUILD~
BUILD

Syntax: build create <room skeleton>
build replace <new room skeleton>
build <clear/edit/sell/send>
build <name/show/outdoor/description/nightdesc/exits> 

  The room builder allows a cabal member capable of construction of rooms to
create, edit, replace and describe the rooms that will be built in the
cabal.  Before a "send" command is issued and a vote for the room is
created, the builder must first choose one of the pre-created rooms.  Once
the room "skeleton" is chosen, the NAME, DESC, NIGHT, OUTDOOR, AND EXIT
commands may be used to change various parts of the room to suit the taste
of the builder.   

At any time the current status of the room you are editing may be displayed
with SHOW command.  An existing cabal room may be SOLD for half its value, 
or you may SEND your building request to be voted on. 

See also: BUILD CREATE, BUILD EDIT, BUILD REPLACE, BUILD EXITS
~

#868
-1 'BUILD SEND'~
BUILD SEND

Syntax: build send 

  Deducts the cost of the room from the cabal coffers, and the cost
of the build vote from the senders.  A vote for the room is created, 
and when it is accepted the room is built.  If the vote is rejected
the cost of the room is refunded in full. 

See also: BUILD 
~

#869
-1 'BUILD EDIT'~
BUILD EDIT

Syntax: build edit

  This command will copy the information of the room you are in, and 
prepare it for editing using various builder commands.  You then may
change various properties of the room you chose to edit.  Once ready 
you may SEND the changes to be voted on or SELL the edited room. 

It costs 50% of original value to update the room with new changes. 

See also: BUILD SEND, BUILD SELL
~

#870
-1 'BUILD REPLACE'~
BUILD REPLACE

Syntax: build replace <room skeleton>

  The replace command prepares the room you are in to be replaced 
with a new room of your choice.  The new room may be edited and
prepared as normal, but when it is sent using SEND command and
accepted in the vote, it will be built in the spot where the original
room was.  Cost of the original room is not returned. 

See also: BUIL SEND
~

#871
-1 'BUILD EXITS'~
BUILD EXITS

Syntax: build exits <direction>  : New path FROM CURRENT TO EDITED
        build exits <dir> delete : Delete a particular exit
        build exits <dir> desc   : Enter exit description
        build exits <dir> name   : Enter door name.
        build exits <dir> closed : Toggle initial state of the door
        build exits <dir> door   : Create a door
        build exits <dir> nopass : Toggle unpassable door
        build exits <dir> secret : Set door as invisible when closed

These commands allow you to change various properties of an exit 
leading in or out of a cabal room. When entering direction keep in mind 
the following simple rule: 

      When CREATING a NEW exit, you specify direction from the room you are
IN to the room you hope to build. For all other commands, you specify the
direction as if you were inside the room you are editing. 

Example:

To create an exit from the room you are in, leading north to the room you are
building: 
"build exits north"

To build a door in the passage we just created: 
"build exits south door"

To make the door in the north/south passage be closed initially:
"build exit south closed" 

See also: BUILD
~

#872
-1 worth~
WORTH

Syntax: worth

Displays various information about your gold, experience and cabal points.

See also: HELP SCORE
~

#873
-1 'DETECT TRAPS'~
Syntax: commune 'detect traps'

  This powerful albeit very short prayer will allow the priest to detect
dangerous traps and devices in nearby area.  The strength of this inner
sight is strongly affected by the priest's power in comparison to quality
of the trap. 

See also: HELP TRAPS
~

#874
-1 OOC 'OUT OF CHARACTER'~
OOC OUT OF CHARACTER

As a general rule, words, expressions, and actions that are not compatible
with a fantasy-based world are unacceptable.  Examples of words that do not 
exist are below followed by a common acceptable replacement used: 

Exp          - Learning
Hp           - Health
AC           - Defenses
Str 12       - Weak
Str 24       - Very strong
Eq           - Wares, Gear
PK           - Murder, Slay
Level        - Rank, Title 

In general, using numbers to reference anything is a grey area, instead, if
possible, type out the number in question. The 'report' command will also
give those around you a basic assessment of your current physical and mental
status, and typing "group" will show you the current status of you entire
group. 

In relation to cohesive roleplaying, using OOC (Out Of Character) knowledge
to motivate your characters actions is also unacceptable.  Using other
characters to kill enemies of different characters, or saying things such
as "My other character is ____" is frowned upon.  Logging off with one
character and performing an action with another that was swayed by a previous
event is using OOC knowledge to motivate action.  For example, a member of
your group is killed, and you log on a healer to resurrect him. 

SEE ALSO:  ROLEPLAYING, MULTI
~

#875
-1 ROYAL ROYALTY~
HELP ROYAL 

  The Royal Houses of Mirlan are player run cabals which hold
control over the various city states in the land.  The Royal House 
can pass laws to affect the legal status of their city, the maximum 
penalties for various crime, regulation of Trader owned stores, and 
trade with other Cabals.

  Keep in mind that to in order to become a member of the Royal 
Household, you must have the HIGHEST standard of role-play, as these 
organizations demand that you put Role-play before all else. 

  KEEP IN MIND that any one who disrespects a Royal member, not only 
runs the risk of receiving a healthy bounty on their head from their 
sizable treasuries, but also draws towards themselves the anger of 
gods themselves. 

Current Royal Houses are: 

See also: 
~

#876
-1 'BUILD CREATE'~
BUILD CREATE

Syntax: build create:   list rooms available
build create <number> : build specific room 

  The first step in building a room for your cabal, is too choose
what room will be used as the "skeleton" for your construction.
Each cabal has a preset collection of rooms that you may choose
from, some serving specific functions or granting special abilities
to your cabal.  Each cabal is also given at least one "dummy" room
that has no specific function, can be completely edited and built
in great numbers.  This room will usually have a name such as
"En Empty Hallway" or "Empty Garden" etc.

Continued in: "HELP BUILD CREATE2"
~

#877
-1 'BUILD CREATE2'~
BUILD CREATE2

The list of rooms shown to you has following headings:
1 . The Keep              Bld: 1500 Cp 100 Sup 15  Pwr: chat
^    ^                     ^        ^       ^            ^ 
|    |                     |        |       |            |
|  Room Name               |    Rent Cost   |        Cabal Ability
Number                Build Cost       Support Cost

Build Cost: CP's needed to create the room
Rent Cost : CP's added or subtracted to cabal's income / rent cycle.
Support   : Bonus or penalty to cabal's support rating
Ability   : Some rooms have a specific function that unlocks a cabal
            ability. Use the help command to learn more about each one. 

See also:  HELP BUILD, RENT, SUPPORT
~

#878
-1 RENT~
HELP RENT

Syntax:  cabal info

   As cabals grow and expand, the cabal Elders and Leaders begin to issue
orders for constructions of rooms that will shape the cabal to their tastes.
These rooms can either generate, or cost CP's depending on their nature.
Positive values are income, negative are costs. 

  Each cabal has what is called a "rent cycle" that takes full 24 real time
hours to complete.  Every cabal statistic dealing with cabal points, is per
rent cycle.  Hence a cabal with income of 500 CPs and rent of -400 CPs would
generate 100CPs per cycle (24h) into its coffers.  If at the end of rent cycle
you are significantly short of CP's to cover your costs, your rooms will be
sold for profit at 50% build cost until the costs are covered.

NOTE:  The actual gain of cps by your cabal happens continuously, the passing
of the rent cycle is merely a marker when your cabal coffers are checked.  If
you are significantly short of cps at this time, rooms and or armies might be
sold.

See also: HELP CABAL COMMANDS, SUPPORT, CABAL
~

#879
-1 SUPPORT~
HELP SUPPORT

Syntax:  cabal info 

  Each cabal has a support rating which is based mainly on the amount
of areas it has under control, and reflects its economic strength much 
like the raw supply of minerals, man power, logistics etc.  This value 
is not accumulated like gold or CPs, rather it reflects the cabal's ability
to support its room, and troops RIGHT NOW.   

 As the cabal expands and rooms are built, and troops hired the support
value may be boosted (positive support from areas and raids) or lowered 
(negative support from rooms, armies or raids).  The CP gain for a cabal is 
always equal to 1/10th of the surplus support. 

Example: 1000 support gain = 100 cp gain per rent cycle.
Example: -500 support gain = -50 cp gain per rent cycle.

 As a cabal takes over areas (if able) it will begin to experience loss 
of support to corruption, to reflect the sprawling empire.  The only cure to 
this is to create Non-Aggression Pacts with Royal Houses or for greater effect
the [LAW] cabal.

If your cabal's coffers dip below -1000cps your rooms will be sold until
positive support is achieved.  

See also: HELP CABAL COMMANDS, RENT, CABAL, ARMIES
~

#880
-1 Bank Banker Balance Withdraw Deposit~
BANK BANKER WITHDRAW DEPOSIT BALANCE

Syntax:  balance
Syntax:  deposit <amount>
Syntax:  Withdraw <amount> 

BALANCE shows you your current balance.  This must be done at
one of the banks with the lands. 

DEPOSIT <amount> will deposit the specified amount of gold into
your account, making it available for withdraw.  Do not give your
gold to the banker, as it will not be deposited. 

WITHDRAW <amount> will deduct the specified amount of gold from
your account.  The bank will assess a fee of 10% of the requested
amount and deduct that from your withdraw.  You will receive 90% 
of the amount that you requested. 

The amount of gold you carry can be determined by using the 'score'
command or by modifying your prompt.

SEE ALSO:  SCORE, PROMPT
~

#881
-1 SPONSOR SPONSORED SPONSORSHIP~
SPONSOR

Syntax:  cabal sponsor <character> 

  The members of cabal may opt to use this type of induction system
in order to focus on quality rather then quantity of their members.
When in use, the system requires any applicant to first seek out
a present member and ask them to "sponsor" them for entrance.  Only
then will they be able to send an application for induction. 

  When you sponsor a hopeful member four things occur:
1) You cannot sponsor any more people until your pupil's application 
   is rejected, or they reach the Veteran status.
2) You have veto powers over all promotion votes regarding the pupil.
3) Any CP penalty applied to your pupil will also be applied to you.
4) When the sponsored person is allowed into the cabal they will being
   at rank 1 instead of 0 thus speeding up their progress. 

See also: HELP CABAL, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#882
-1 SURRENDER~
SURRENDER

Syntax: surrender

Those criminals that wish to submit willingly to the forces of Law, may
surrender to common guards, and thus be brought to justice.  Simply use
the surrender command to notify the nearest guards of your wish. 

See also: HELP LAW, WANTED
~

#883
-1 'SOLAR REQUIREMENTS'~
SOLAR REQUIREMENTS

  Classes: All
  Races	 : All
  Level	 : 15-50
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "avatar application" in application subject
  - Must be good aligned
  - Must be follower of the way of Purity and powers of Life

You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words Solar
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is approved 
you shall be made to know what else is required of you.

See also: HELP SOLAR
~

#884
-1 'DEMON REQUIREMENTS'~
DEMON REQUIREMENTS 

  Classes: Warrior, Berserker, Cleric, Shaman, Sorcerer, 
   Necromancer, Dark Knight
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "demon application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of the way of Discord and powers of Chance

You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words demon
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you. 

See also: HELP DEMON
~

#885
-1 'UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS'~
UNDEAD REQUIREMENTS
  Classes: All
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "undead application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of powers of Death 

You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words Undead
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you. 

See Also: HELP UNDEAD
~

#886
-1 'VAMPIRE REQUIREMENTS'~
VAMPIRE REQUIREMENTS
  Classes: Dark-Knight
  Races  : Human
  Level  : 15-30
  - MUST INCLUDE WORDS "vampire application" in application subject
  - Must be evil aligned
  - Must be follower of powers of Death

You must send a scroll of application to Immortal, scribing of your
history, goals, and any deeds you think may help your chances to be
approved.  The scroll must bear the title which includes words Vampire
and application or it will not be considered.  If your scroll is 
approved you shall be made to know what else is required of you. 

See also: HELP VAMPIRE
~

#887
-1 'CABAL ABILITIES' 'CABAL ROOMS' CHAT COFFERS HIGHGAIN HEARGUARD GATE GUARD 
ALLOW2 ALLOW3 ALLOW4 ALLOW5 ALLOW~
CABAL ABILITIES

Following are brief explanation of various abilities granted by rooms: 

CHAT		: cabal chat ("help cabal commands")
COFFERS		: allows cabal to store more then 500cps
HIGHGAIN	: increased rate of cp gain per game hour (tick)
HEARGUARD	: allows to hear reports from jail and city guards
GATE		: locks a cabal when no members present
GUARD		: cabal guard is maintained at the entrance
ALLOW2		: allows (V)eteran level cabal powers
ALLOW3		: allows (T)rusted level cabal powers
ALLOW4		: allows (E)lder level cabal powers
ALLOW5		: allows (L)eader level cabal powers 

Various rooms also come with their own abilities, for example
a smithy might contain a weapon shop, or object related services. 

See also: HELP BUILD, CABAL
~

#888
-1 EXILE~
EXILE

Syntax: exile <victim> 

  The Royal Houses of Mirlan hold the right and power to exile any single
person from within their City State.  The person thus exiled will not be
served in any of the city stores, guilds or temples.  If the city is the
victim's hometown, they will not be able to recall to it as well. 

See also: HELP ROYAL
~

#889
-1 'BOUNTY COMMANDS'~
BOUNTY COMMANDS

Syntax: bounty cp    <amount>	: adds cps to the bid
	bounty gold  <amount>	: adds gold to the bid
	bounty add   <object>	: adds the item to the bid
	bounty rem   <obj>	: removes item from the bid
	bounty place <victim>	: place the bid onto the victim
	bounty			: show the bid you are working on
	bounty clear		: clears the bid
	bounty <name>		: views bids on the name 

  These commands allow you to adjust your bid for the victim's death.  You may
place any amount of gold, cabal points, or up to five limited items as the
reward for their death.  Once you are satisfied with your bid, use the 
"bountyplace <victim>" to add this bid onto the bounty for the victim's death.
If you have previous bounties for that victim, the new bid will be added on.

You must be in an appropriate locale to place a bounty. 

See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#890
-1 BOUNTY~
BOUNTY

Syntax: bounty <cp/gold/add/rem/clear/place>
bounty place <victim>
bounty buyout

 Some cabals maintain that its primary income is from its various trades and
shops.  However even the youngest thief knows that it is the bounties given
out for various individuals in the lands, usually in the not so secret locales
in the major cities. 

A bounty may be placed upon anyone's head using gold, cabal points or limited
items as the price of their death.  A single target may have many individual
"bids" from various parties interested in their death, with the bounty hunter
being able to see each bid, and its contents but not who placed it.

NOTE: Bounties marked with (`!$!`3``) symbol have been paid for by an allied
cabal and will grant higher payment, and a larger share of the bounty. 

Continued in HELP BOUNTY2

See also: HELP BOUNTY COMMANDS, CONTRACT, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#891
-1 BOUNTY2~
BOUNTY2 

When the victim is killed, the bounty hunter then selects the bid that seems
most lucrative to them.  All the contents of that bid are then transferred to
the bounty hunter who will receive gold, cabal points and equipment contented 
in that bid as well as the best three limited items from the victim based on
item level. 

At the same time, the person who placed the "winning" bid chosen by the bounty
hunter, receives the remaining limited items from the victim, and the
satisfaction of knowing that their target has been justly done in. 

The following rules apply to bounties and limited items.
- Only up to 5 limited items may be placed in bids.
- The victim must be higher in rank the 40 OR in a cabal.
- You will only receive victim's limited items if you  are of.
  rank 40 or higher.

 See also: HELP BOUNTY COMMANDS, CONTRACT, BOUNTY, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#892
-1 CONTRACT~
CONTRACT

Syntax: contract  : lists available contracts
contract <victim>: contract out the given bounty 

This command lists the available contracts and sets a contract up for bidding.

See also: HELP BOUNTY, COLLECT, TOP10
~

#893
-1 COLLECT~
COLLECT

Syntax: collect <victim>	: collects first available bid
	collect <victim> <bid #>: collects using the given bid
	collect list <victim>	: lists bids by cp
	collect gold <victim>	: lists bids by gold
	collect obj  <victim>	: lists bids by avg. object level
	collect list <name> <bid #>: shows bid in detail 

In order to collect a bounty for death of a victim, the hunter must use the
collect command while the victim is stunned before them.  When using the
collect command you may select the bid you chose to receive for their death. 
All the contents of that bid will be transferred to you along with three best
limited items from the victim.  Rest of the limited items are given to the
creator of the bid you have chosen.

See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, TOP10
~

#894
-1 TOP10 'TOP 10'~
TOP10

Syntax: top10

   Shows the highest 10 bounties according to gold, cp and object level. 

See also: HELP BOUNTY, CONTRACT, COLLECT
~

#895
-1 COUP~
COUP

Syntax: coup <victim>

  The more 'ambition' driven organizations in Mirlan allow their members to
attempt a power coup as a means of promotion rather then the standard slower
means of advancement. 

A coup may only be attempted upon a victim who belongs to  your cabal, and is
within two cabal ranks from your own rank. If you manage to kill them during
the duration of the coup, you will automatically ascend to their rank, while
they will descend to yours.  If you die to them in your attempt however you
will be demoted TWO ranks and the victim will remain unchanged. 

NOTE: If you fail a coup (get killed) and you are of cabal rank lower then
Veteran (2), you will be removed from the cabal.
~

#896
-1 'VOTE LIST' BUILD 'CABAL TAX' DEMOTION ELDERSHIP EXPEL LEADERSHIP PROMOTION 

POLL TITHE~
VOTE TYPES

Syntax: vote create: lists available votes
	vote create <votename>: create the vote 

 Depending on your cabal rank various types of votes may be available for you
to create.  Below is a list of various vote types and short explanation. 

- BUILD:		target: none
This vote is never created by a player directly, but rather 
generated by the "build" command.

- CABAL TAX:		target: tax level in percent
This vote decides the tax level for all income based on actions of cabal
members.  The tax portion of the income is placed in cabal coffers. 

- DEMOTION:		target: cabal member
Demotes the target cabal member one rank 

- ELDERSHIP:		target: cabal member
Promotes a target member of cabal to the rank of Elder.  The member must be
of rank Trusted. 

- EXPEL:		target: cabal member
Expels target member from cabal the member must be of rank lower than Elder. 

- LEADERSHIP:		target: cabal member
Promotes a target member to the rank of Leader.  The member must be an Elder. 

- LAW:		target: <crime> <maximum penalty>
Sets the maximum penalty that the LAW may place for a given crime.
Requires a Trade Pact with LAW Cabal. 

- PROMOTION:		target: cabal member
Promotes the target character one rank up to rank of Trusted. 

- POLL:		target: none
Creates a general opinion poll for the cabal members. 

- PACT:		target: <pact> <cabal>
See HELP PACT

- TITHE:		target: cabal to tithe to
Gives a gift of cabal points to another cabal, improving the relations
between the cabals based on the amount tithed.

See also: HELP CABAL VOTES, PACT
~

#897
-1 diplomacy~
DIPLOMACY

Syntax: diplomacy 

  The Royal Houses of Mirlan have long perfected the art of politics and
diplomacy.  Those members skilled in the arts of negotiation may declare
themselves envoys and employing armed entourage for protection remain safe
from any danger. 

  The diplomatic immunity will cause you to be removed from PlayerKilling range
of all players in the game, and will cause the <`8PK``> symbol to appear by your
name.  The diplomatic immunity will continue to protect you as long as one of
the following holds true: 

- You are in your or allied cabal grounds.
- You are in the city your or allied Royal House governs.
- You are escorted by your or allied cabal members.
The escort required is 3 for Leaders, 2 for Elders, and 1 otherwise. 

If none of these conditions are valid, you are abducted, or you become "bloody"
through combat or otherwise, your diplomatic status will be lost. 

See also: HELP ROYAL
~

#898
-1 CLASS CLASSES~
Mirlan has the following possible classes for player characters:

Startup Classes:

   Commoner, Noble, Merchant, Adventurer

Lethal (PK) Classes:

  Warrior, Cavalier, Paladin, Sorcerer, Thaumaturgist, Necromancer, Ranger,
  Berserker, Thief, Druid, Cleric, Shaman, Healer, Dark-Knight.

Non-lethal (NPK) Classes:

  Blacksmith, Tailor, Miner, Jeweler, Alchemist  

These guilds are selectable later in a characters life, and not immediately
at startup.
~

#899
-1 PACT PACTS~
PACT

Syntax:   vote target <pact> <cabal> 

Age of Mirlan uses a system of diplomatic pacts to simulate the relations and
trade between its cabals.  Any cabal may choose to form following pacts between
itself and another cabal: 

TRADE: See HELP TRADE 
VENDETTA:   See HELP VENDETTA
PEACE:      When agreed upon, it ends a Vendetta against the given cabal.
EMBARGO:    Halts and cancels all trade treaties with the given cabal.
NEGOTIATE:  When agreed upon, allows a fully developed Trade pact to progress
            to Non-Aggression pact, and NA Pact to Alliance. 

See also: HELP TRADE, HELP VENDETTA
~

#900
-1 TRADE NA-PACT ALLIANCE~
TRADE

[CARTEL] [===|==-|---|---] Trade           : -1cp
  ^              ^               ^                  ^
  |            Relation Rating   |             Costs/Benefits
Cabal being traded with         Pact Type (Trade, NA-Pact, Alliance)

When formed this pact allows for trade to flow between the two 
cabals, adding additional gain of cabal points and support
based on the raw income of each cabal.  The initial trade
gain starts as negative to reflect the investment of resources
required to forge new trade routes, then with increasing
relations grows upwards. 

The "rating" of the pact, reflects the relations between the two 
cabals.  It will grow better in time, and can be further boosted 
by tithes and specific actions of cabal members.  When the pact 
reaches high enough rating, a NEGOTIATE pact may be created by 
either one of cabals, which if voted and agreed upon will allow 
the trade pact to progress to NA-Pact, and NA-Pact to Alliance 
carrying further benefits such as no sudden Vendettas, unrestricted 
entry to Allied cabal grounds, and sharing of military resources.

The relations with various cabals are very dynamic and can be impacted
by actions directed against other cabals.  If you hold relations with
cabal A and cabal B whom are also allied with each other, any harmful
action against A will result in suffering relations with B etc.  This
means that decisions that have a potent impact on your cabal politics
should be weighted carefully as to not leave your cabal weakened due to
lack of trade or numerous Vendettas.

Any negative actions such as killing a member of your allied cabal
(bounties do not affect relations) will hamper the relations between
your cabal, as will failure to fulfill services listed in HELP TRADE2 

A trade pact with one of the cabals offering services will usually
offer specific advantages listed in HELP TRADE2

See also: HELP TRADE2, PACT, VENDETTA
~

#901
-1 TRADE2~
TRADE2

The following service cabals will offer specific advantages to its trading
partner, in exchange for cost in trade. 

LAW:

  Any Royal cabal forming trade with LAW will have their city become Lawful
  and will gain ability to set laws within their city.  While their home city
  remains lawful the Royal House and all its members will enjoy a large boost
  to the gain of cabal points over time. LAW NA-Pacts and higher also help
  to curb corruption for cabals with large support ratings. Correct marking of
  criminals, capture and judgment will all improve relations.  Failure to
  recognize crimes will hamper them.

  Alliance:  Allows you to use your cps to buy out any bounties set on you.
             See HELP BOUNTY for more details. 

  NA-Pact:  You gain access to the network of spies that will allow you to
            gain information using "cabal info" and "cabal armies" command.
            You will also be informed when a bounty is set on your head, by
            whom, and will be able to glimpse who is bountied. Collection of
            allied bounties will increase relations.

  NOTICE:   Collection of a bounty on an allied cabal member has no impact on
            relations, unlike normal attack and death. 

See also: HELP TRADE
~

#902
-1 VENDETTA~
VENDETTA

An official declaration of armed action against another cabal.  
It boosts the time gain of cabal points for members, as well as 
allows attacks of the enemy cabal by your armies.  Unlike other
cabal pacts, the "rating" of Vendetta will start out as "good"
and with armed action grow worse to reflect the suffering relations.
If no armed action is taken for extended time, the relations will
improved to the point where Vendetta will break off automatically.
The same may be achieved with a PEACE pact.

Cabals whom you have Vendetta against will have their armies automatically
attacked by your patrols, and their members will be attacked on sight
by your cabal guards.

See also: HELP TRADE
~

#903
-1 army armies conquest conquer conquered~
ARMY

Syntax: army	  : enters command mode zoomed in on last room
        army      : leaves the command mode
        army last : enters command mode zoomed in on last army report

An army is the basic unit used by cabals to wage armed conflict.  The
cabal members act as generals of their troops and from any place in the
land may direct their armies to wage war upon their enemies.

For details on each army command use "help army <command>" 

Example: "help army ?" (list of all army commands)

See also:
HELP ARMY PROMPT, ARMY COMMANDS, BASTION, REINFORCE, SUPPORT, CABAL COMMANDS
~

#904
-1 BASTION BASTIONS TOWER TOWERS FORTRESS FORTRESSES CASTLE CASTLES~
BASTION 

A bastion is any static defense built by a cabal's army to defend
and secure an area.  In an area that has reinforcement (see HELP REINFORCE)
an army can be ordered to build a bastion through garrison order.
Once built, the bastion can be garrisoned with troops increasing their armor
value to that of the bastion. 

TAKING OVER AN AREA:

Each area has a maximum number of bastions it can support.  If a
cabal builds more then half that maximum's bastions they conquer it.
An area that has no bastions will eventually rebel against the cabal
that holds it, and turn neutral.  You can find out how many bastions 
your cabal has in an area and its maximum using "[M]ap" army command.

See also: HELP ARMY, REINFORCE, ARMY GARRISON
~

#905
-1 REINFORCE REINFORCEMENT~
REINFORCEMENT
A key idea required for successful warmongering is the concept
of reinforcement. An area is reinforced if your armies can get
to it by traveling through allied territory. 

Armies in areas that are reinforced will gain +10% defense per hour
as long as they are out of combat.  Bastions require more effort to
rebuilt and will gain +5% of their defense.  Since armies cannot heal
or move into an unreinforced area it is crucial to protect your supply
routes. 

Example:
  Cabal-A-B
	  |
	  C-D

"A" belongs to KNIGHT, KNIGHT can reinforce "A", "B" and "C" but not "D" 

See also: HELP BASTION, ARMY, ARMY GARRISON
~

#906
-1 'ARMY CONSCRIPT' 'ARMY TRAIN' 'ARMY RELEASE'~
ARMY CONSCRIPT TRAIN RELEASE 

Syntax: conscript <armies>
	train <armies>	 
	release <armies>

CONSCRIPT:	Drafts specified number of armies.  Use 0 to halt conscription.
TRAIN:		Upgrades specified number of regular units to elite.
		Use 0 to halt training.
RELEASE:	Disbands given number of units from barracks.  Regular
		units are disbanded before elites.

See also: HELP ARMIES
~

#907
-1 'ARMY GARRISON' 'ARMY FORTIFY' 'ARMY eGARRISON' 'ARMY eFORTIFY'~
ARMY GARRISON FORTIFY

Syntax: garrison  <army ID>
	egarrison <army ID>
	fortify   <army ID>
	efortify  <army ID>

GARRISON:	When given, this order will cause an army to leave barracks
		and garrison the room you are zoomed in on.  Completed
		bastions start at 1% defense, 50% if built by elite unit.
		You may give army ID to use for garrison instead of
		barracked army.

FORTIFY:	Used to upgrade bastion currently zoomed in on, to its
		fortified version.  Fortified bastions have stronger defense
		and higher armor rating.  Fortifications are completed
		twice as fast by elite units.
		You may give army ID to use for garrison instead of
		barracked army.


See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#908
-1 'ARMY ZOOM' 'ARMY ORDERS' 'ARMY QUEUE'~
ARMY ZOOM MAP ORDERS QUEUE

Syntax: queue
	orders
	zoom <army ID>

QUEUE:	Displays the army report queue containing important past
	reports from armies.  You can use the army IDs in reports
	to quickly zoom in on the action.

ORDERS: Displays all armies under your command and their current
	orders, state and area.

ZOOM:	Zooms in on the room with the given army.  All army orders
	such as attack, hold, and garrison require a room to be
	zoomed in on as destination.
	Use "zzoom" to flip back to last zoom target.

See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#909
-1 'ARMY ATTACK' 'ARMY PATROL' 'ARMY HOLD' 'ARMY BARRACKS' 'ARMY AATTACK' 'ARMY 

PPATROL' 'ARMY HHOLD' 'ARMY BBARRACKS'~
ARMY ATTACK PATROL HOLD BARRACKS

Syntax: attack <army ID>
	patrol <army ID>
	hold   <army ID>
	barracks <army ID>

** Attack, Patrol, and Hold all target the currently zoomed on room ***
** eAttack, ePatrol, eHold all result in elite army leaving baracks ***

ATTACK:		Sends an army from barracks to attack and destroy all 
		unfriendly units in target room.  You can choose an
		army to send instead of a barracked one.

PATROL:		Sends an army to patrol currently zoomed on room. The
		patrol will intercept and attack any armies moving
		past it.  You can select a specific army to patrol.

HOLD:		Sends an army to currently zoomed on room, with orders
		to defend any friendly units and hold the room against
		any attackers.

BARRACKS:	Orders the target army to return to barracks.

See also: HELP ARMY COMMANDS, ARMY COMBAT
~

#910
-1 'ARMY COMBAT'~
ARMY COMBAT 


Army combat occurs when two hostile armies occupy the same room.  The
armies which have just arrived become the attackers, while the armies
previously present become defenders.

Armies battle until either all the attackers or all the defenders
are destroyed.  When an army is defeated, the remaining forces always
target the army with the lowest defense.  Bastions do not take part 
in battles until all of the defending patrols and garrisons are destroyed.

FLYING ARMIES:  Flying armies are capable of partially attacking all
of their opponents in the area.  However the damage caused is weakened
for each additional opponent. (Full damage to first, 1/3rd to second
1/9th to third and so on.)

See Also: HELP ARMY COMMANDS
~

#911
-1 'ARMY MAP'~
Syntax: map 

	map <map ID/cabal_name/world>

The map command shows all the units stationed in the area.  You can display
map of area in which you are zoomed in ("map"), specific area map ("map #"),
listing of all the areas you have units in ("map world"), and list of all
areas a particular cabal has units in ("map <cabal>").

MAP SCREEN:
---------------------------------------------------------
Focus   Bas  Gar  Pat    Attackers    Room
[#13  ] [V] [v ] [V ]    [Nn ]     The Central Square

[U]Uslym             B:1/8  G:1  P:1  S:281(90%)
---------------------------------------------------------

- We can use army ID 13 to zoom on the room
- The room has a fortified Revelsport bastion, 1 normal garrison and 1 elite
  patrol
- There are two Nexus armies, one normal and one elite attacking
- The area (ValMiran) can be reinforced ([R]) by our cabal
- Our cabal has 1 out of 8 bastions, 1 patrol and 1 garrison in the area
- We are collecting 281 support from this area
- We are collecting 90% of maximum support possible due to support spent on 
  garrisons

See also: ARMY COMMANDS
~

#912
-1 'ARMY ?' 'ARMY COMMANDS'~
ARMY COMMANDS

Army units orders:
     [A]tack,  [P]atrol,  [H]old,  [G]arrison,  [B]arracks

Elite units orders:
     [aA]tack, [pP]atrol, [hH]old, [gG]arrison, [bB]arracks

Barracks related commands:
     [C]onscript, [T]rain, [R]elease

Informational commands:
     [Z]oom-in, [M]ap, [O]rders, [Q]ueue

** Use "help army <order>" to get detailed info on each order. 

See also: HELP ARMY
~

#913
-1 JEWELER~
JEWELER

The Jeweler is a master of gems and gemlore.  They can set and create valuable
items as well as imbue them with power.

Jewelers also seek out gems and precious metals (usually from miners) to create
their fantastic works of art.

Jewelers due to their profession should have steady and nimble fingers.  One 
slip and a whole piece can be ruined.  The higher the level of the jeweler,
the less likely a misfortune in cutting or shaping the precious stones.

Jewelers have been around as long as people have had an eye for beautiful
and decorative accessories.  With the advent of Dabyula's Blessing of magic
into Mirlan, jewelers found a way long ago while working with mages to empower
their creations.  Since that time long ago, jewelers learned to do these things
on their own from the ancient tomes of their ancestors.

The Jeweler is a NONPK class.  See NONPK or NPK help for details.
~

#914
-1 'ROYAL CALL'~
ROYAL CALL

Syntax: cast 'royal call'

 With only a simple order the Royals of Mirlan may summon their
loyal subjects to guard their persona against the hardships of the 
lands.  The type of followers summoned and their strength varies
with the cabal rank of the royal member. 

See Also: HELP ROYAL GUARDS
~

#915
-1 'ROYAL GUARDS'~
ROYAL GUARDS

Syntax: royal <guard name> 

 Those members of royalty at cabal rank of Elder and higher may choose what sort
of guards are summoned by the Royal Call.  When choosing use the royal command
followed by the singular version of your guard's name.  

For example "royal elite assassin". 

NOTE: You can set your guard only ONCE in your lifetime.  You will
be shown the results before confirming your choice, so choose carefully. 

See Also: HELP ROYAL CALL
~

#916
-1 BARD~
BARD

Bards are the minstrels, poets, tarot readers and storytellers of the lands.
With their instruments and songs, they are able to weave wondrous workings
upon the spirit and their surroundings.  A bard is one who seeks the company
of others for mirth and merry.  Their melodies can quicken one's feet for
battle, provide nourishment and drink for entire gatherings, or be a lullaby
to soft as to put anyone to sleep.  While not as proficient in the arts of
war as warriors, there are known to be accomplished barroom brawlers, able
break a man's jaw with a single blow or use their playing cards as weapons. 

See also: HELP REHEARSE, REFRAIN, SONG
~

#917
60 Chakera~
CHAKERA

Syntax:  automatic

 Due to their extensive training of anatomies, monks are able to strike points
in the bodies of their opponents quite hard, capitalizing on any potential
weaknesses, and exploiting them.  This strike has the potential of disrupting
the protective shield of a spell caster, thus making them susceptible to bashes
and bodyslams.  This brutal attack is highly damaging, and leaves one's
opponent stunned for a moment as he or she recuperates from the strike.  Undead
opponents and immune to this attack and ogres have been told to often shrug off
it's effects.
~

#918
-4 cabal~ 'RAISE MORALE'~
RAISE MORALE

Syntax: cast 'raise morale'

  Using their leadership skills, the LAW may raise the morale of
their Guard Captains or Wolfhounds and inspire themselves and their
troops to better pursue and deal with the criminal element.  The large
boost to morale will cause the Captains to choose their weapons according
to the criminal's weakness.  The wolfhounds in turn will fight with 
greater ferocity and attempt to blind their opponents with dirt whenever
possible.

 See also: HELP LAW
~

#919
-1 QRACE~
QRACE

Many different races of people call Mirlan home, but many more still have yet
to emerge from the hidden parts of the world.   

The Implementors of the Age of Mirlan have given you the opportunity to apply
to have a custom race, limited only by your imagination.  Before you apply
however, please consider these criteria: 

1)  You must have exceptional RP.  From the second you entered Mirlan, you 
    have exemplified everything that your desired race is.  At no point in time
    should you break RP.

2)  Your desired race needs to be somewhat compatible with your original
    (i.e., no elves applying to be giants, or vice versa.) This is not a tool to
    bypass racial vulnerabilities, etc.  Your desired race must also be within
    mortal bounds, and not 'immortal' races, such as angels, devils or the like. 

3)  An extremely well-written description is required.  If you do not have this
    completed, do not even apply.  Your description will be checked by more than
    one immortal, and it will be good to pay special attention to it. 

4)  Send a note in APPLICATION form to 'Immortal', detailing your character's
    history and it will be reviewed.  A well-written application is required.
   The application should be no more than 70 characters per line, and be thought
   out and formatted.

The above criteria are merely a guideline, and there are more things that are
considered when a custom race is approved/declined.
~

#920
-1 HITROLL DAMROLL SAVES~
HITROLL DAMROLL SAVES

 HITROLL:  You will find that many items add or subtract from your 'hitroll'.
This is a measure of your accuracy in combat.  A high hitroll will aid you in
bypassing an opponents armor, defenses and hit more frequently.  In addition
to items, your strength will effect hitroll as well. 

DAMROLL:  In addition to hitroll, some items often effect damroll as well.
This is a measure of how much damage your attacks inflict.  Your hitroll will
be added to your weapon's damage to determine your total damage.  Things such
as certain spells, abilities, and armor class will increase or decrease the
amount of damage that you will deal. 

SAVES:  Sort of an AC against spells, saves will prevent or reduce the effects
of spell cast upon you by an opponent.  Saves begins in the positive and go down
as they improve so it is beneficial for your saves to be as far into the 
negatives as possible in each of the four categories. 

See Also:  SPELLS, AFFLICTIVE, MALEDICTIVE, MENTAL
~

#921
-1 Roleplay Roleplaying RP~
ROLEPLAY ROLEPLAYING RP 

Roleplaying is not merely required here at The Age of Mirlan, it is enforced.
You are all expected to develop a personality for each of your characters and
act accordingly.  Roleplaying is something that can only be bettered with a lot
of practice and here are but a few keywords that will aid you in defining your
character(s) personality: 

Family:   
          Was your character an only child?  Did he/she have siblings?  If so,
          how many?  What did your parents do?  How did they act?  Are they
          still living? 

Childhood:
          What was your character's youth like?  What did he/she do for fun?
          Did he/she have many friends, or was he/she a loner? 

Likes:   
          What sort of things/activities does your character enjoy doing?
          Maybe your character enjoys whittling wood, and is known to pull out
          a chunk of wood and carve away.  Perhaps your character enjoys 
          nothing as much as a nice cigar.  It may be a hobby, a particular
          food, or even a group of people. 

Dislikes: 
          What sort of things does he/she dislike?  Maybe he/she isn't fond of
          onions, or maybe the smell of leather drives him/her to anger. 

Long/Short Term Goals:  
          What does your character want to accomplish in the near future?  This
          could be such things as being accepted into a particular clan or
          cabal, or even defeating an enemy.  What about in the long run?  Does
          he/she want to destroy every gnome in Mirlan, or save them all?

This is but a short list of examples.  Expand a bit and your character will no
longer seem to be a string of numbers and letters, but a living and breathing
person all its own.

See Also:  OOC, ALIGNMENT, ETHOS, RELIGION
~

#922
-1 Damnation~
DAMNATION

Among Mirlan's citizens, none are more dedicated to their own than those of
good align.  And as such, none are more pained by conflict within their own.
In the rare event that a Light walker destroys their own, they suffer a loss of
memory and confidence, as the Gods of light visit their sorrow upon them.  It's
effects last quite some time, as the God's favor is difficult to regain once it
has been lost. 

See Also:  ALIGN, GOOD
~

#923
-1 'ALIAS ADVANCED'~
ALIAS ADVANCED

COMMANDS ARGUMENTS
SPECIAL CHARACTERS:

  There are three special characters used inside the alias:
  ";"- separates commands within an alias
  "$"   - inserts the alias argument
  "%"   - quotes the next character explicitly
          (if you want to use ; or $ as text) 

USING ALIASES IN ALIAS

  You can use an alias in another alias for added functionality.

Example:

alias cw cast 'word of recall'
alias wh where pk
alias escape cw;wh
escape

Would execute:
cast 'word of recall'
where pk 

See Also: HELP ALIAS
~

#924
-1 'CONTINUAL LIGHT'~
CONTINUAL LIGHT

 A conjuration known only to a select few classes, this basic enchantment
will conjure a ball of shimmering light, inextinguishable by any means known
save destruction.  This ball of light will illuminate the wearer's
surroundings much as a torch would, while emitting no heat, and never
burning out. 
~

#925
-1 Hero Heroes~
HERO HEROES 

Every so often a mortal man or woman ascends to the next inevitable level
proceeding their mortal life.  Usually selected as the mortal leader of
their guild, they are often considered Immortals.  But in truth, they retain
much of their original mortality.  Though they are strong indeed, they are
still able to be slain. 

Because of their legendary status, these HEROES are forbidden to slay
lesser denizens of Mirlan, but may aid them in ranking, gathering equipment,
and the like.  In their wisdom, the True Gods of Mirlan have also decreed
that no HERO may wear any rare or unique item, leaving them for mortals who
need their power. 

Only one potential mortal from each guild will be selected.  If you feel
you have surpassed your peers, and have achieved the 50th level of your
guild, scribe an application to immortal detailing your desire.   

SEE ALSO:  IMMORTAL, RARE, UNIQUE
~

#926
-1 SING~
SING

Syntax: sing <song> <target>

 Before you can sing a song, you have to rehearse it.  The more you practice,
the higher chance you have of success when casting.  Singing a song costs
mana.  The mana cost decreases as your level increases. 

The <target> is optional.  Many songs which need targets will use an
appropriate default target, especially during combat.

If the song name is more than one word, then you must quote the song name.
Example: sing 'Rest Thy Feet'

Quoting is optional for single-word songs.  You can abbreviate the song name. 

When you sing an offensive song, the victim usually gets a saving throw.
The effect of the song is reduced or eliminated if the victim makes the
saving throw successfully.  Singing an offensive spell on yourself will
result in memory impairment for you to sing that song in the future lowering
your skill in the song. 

You are also able to free verse your own songs.  Singing free verse allows
you to make up your own songs, and 'sing' them free of a mana charge. 

Syntax:  sing free verse <lyrics>
For example; if you input, 'sing free verse Days of summer are long and hot.'
You will see this:  You sing '`6Days of summer are long and hot.``'  Now keep in
mind that this command, like any other can and will be taken away if used in
an inappropriate manner.

See also the help sections for individual songs.
~

#927
-1 CRONOLOGY HISTORY~
CRONOLOGY & HISTORY OF MIRLAN

Chronology and Timeline

	For the recording of time, there are currently five main systems 
in usage.  In the north, time is measured from the year that the Paylen 
and Esterian tribes were unified into the Kingdom of Paleganor  this is 
called Year of the Kings 1 (YK 1).  The Eastern Empire and its neighbors 
and some of its former territories reckon years using the Imperial Year 
(IY), which has its first year some 770 years after the first YK.  The 
southern kingdoms are much older and their time scale, Southern Year (SY) 
was brought with the immigration of the Tzambuli tribesmen, already 
counting the year 1313.  Both the dwarven (Muzaran Year  MY) and elven 
races keep separate calendars but these are little used by men.


Imperial Year of  Muzara Southern
Year     the King Year	 Year
(IY)	 (YK)	  (MY)	 (SY)

The Age of Empires
                        1313	First wave of Tzambuli migrations    
			1450	Southern kingdoms formed
		  1	1497	Dwarven Kingdom of Muzara founded
		200	1696 	Wynnyc migrations begin	
		230	1726	Esterian migrations begin
		317	1813	Kingdom of Grayldemir founded
		350	1846	Paylens pushed east of Lesser Raiders
	  1	408	1896	Unifying of Paylens and Esterians into 
				Kingdom of Paleganor
	 11	418	2006	Grayldemir conquers lands north of Narryl 
				R.
	 75	482	2080	Eastern Empire formed from Greldemir
	119	526	2124	Palinor conquers land west of Sabre R.	
	176	583	2181	Muzara and Palinor form alliance
	227	634	2232	Western Empire proclaimed	
	231	638	2236	War of the Empires begins
	354	761	2359    Eastern Empire defeated	
	359	765	2364	Fall of Muzara

The Age of Kings

	398	---	2403	Esterians pass through Raider's Gap
	414	---	2419	Esterians sack northern Imperial cities
	415	---	2420	Western Empire begins Barbarian Wars
	461	---	2466	Battle of Gyreen River; Restolynd 
				recognized
	503	---	2508	Western Empire ends Barbarian Wars
	548	---	2553	Second War of the Empires begins
	587	---	2592	Western Empire defeated
	616	---	2621	Grand Duchy of Darhelm established
	670	---	2675	Battle of the Wychwood
	671	---	2676	Kingdom of Caerlun formed
	718	---	2723	Third War of the Empires begins
	740 	---	2745	Rise of the Border Lords
    	743	---	2748	Fall of Western Empire; est. Palinor
   1	770	---	2775	Eastern Empire at its height
  40	809	---	2814	Great Plague of the Eastern Empire	 
  43	812	---	2817	Isle of Magius founded
  81	850	---	2867	Theocracy of Darhelm founded
  92	861	---	2878	Battle of Narryl River
  93	862	---	2879	War of the Teznadi Bay; city states formed
 144	913	---	2930	Betrayal of Darhelm, beginning of the evil 
				reign.	                         

The Age of Darkness

149	918	---	2935	Maelgawe gains independence                  
151	920	---	2937	Darhelm army destroyed at Sabre River
156	925	---	2942	First recorded raid of the Ama Croizana
201	970	---	2987	Caerlunish Civil War begins
209	978	---	2995	Theocracy of Astrelas recognized
230	999	---	3016	First Crusade against Darhelm
247	1016	---	3033	Second Crusade against Darhelm
261	1030	---	3049	Scarlet Horde invades Border Marches
317	1086	---	3105	War of the Kings; Fraisea seized
319	1088	---	3107	Palinese Civil War begins
328	1097	---	3116	End of Palinese Civil War 
377	1146	---	3165	Plague of the One Lamp in Palinor
393	1162	---	3181	Astrelas invades Principality of Caerlun
396	1165	---	3184	Revolt in Fraisea
398	1167	(1587)	3186	Horde of Flames invades Border Marches
401	1170		3189	Appearance of the Dragons Sword (comet)
402	1171		3190	Leminter sacked by Crimson Horde
407	1176		3195	present day (2004 on Earth)
~

#928
-1 Taunt~
TAUNT

Syntax: taunt

 Bards are able to use their skill with words to taunt their opponent in
while fighting.  Such taunts can intimidate their opponents, causing
them to fight less effectively.  However, the taunts have been known
to backfire, angering the opponent into a frenzy.
~

#929
51 SCRIBE~
Immortals have access to additional SCRIBE commands:

scribe edit <#> <#> : Edit a give tome
scribe del <#> <#> : Remove a given tome
~

#930
-1 TOME LIBRARY~
TOME LIBRARY

Syntax: tome	     Show index of all work in library
tome <subject #>     Show index of works under given subject
tome <subj#> <tome#> Read a given tome 

The Libraries Of Mirlan house literary works of mortals and Immortals
alike and make them available for reading and printing. To see the index
of subjects currently available simply use "tome".

To see the listings of works under a given subject use "tome <subject #>"
You may read a specific Tome while in the library or Muse cabal by
using "tome <subject #> <tome #>.

See also: HELP PRINT
~

#931
-1 PRINT~
PRINT

Syntax: print <subject #> <tome #>

While present in one of the Mirlan Libraries one may request for
a Tome to be copied and printed for personal use.  For a small sum
of gold, the work may be then enjoyed at ones leisure. 

See also: HELP TOME
~

#932
-1 'boulder throw'~
BOULDER THROW

Syntax: boulder <name>

Due to their size and natural habitat, stone giants are naturally skilled
at using boulders and stones as improvised missile weapons.  Useable only in
certain types of terrain, these attacks, if successful, disorient the target
for a short period of time, rendering him unable to accurately discern
direction as well as taking a substantial amount of damage.   

See Also: GIANT, STONE
~

#933
-1 'Battle Royale'~
BATTLE ROYALE 

General Rules: 
1) You will NOT kill anyone. 
2) You will NOT steal from anyone. 
3) You will NOT take anyone's disarmed weapon. 
4) You will NOT take anything that was not yours upon entrance
5) You will NOT use any ability that may destroy another's equipment. 
6) Bards may NOT sing Lust Seduction Desire. 

Once placed in a room of the Arena, you will STAY PUT until the God
announces the battle to begin.  The battle ends when only ONE mortal remains
in the Arena.  You may only use abilities that a group member can provide.
Hence, if no one in your team is able to cast/commune sanctuary, you may not
use vials. Similarly, gyvel/red potions may not be used.  

See also HELP: ONE ON ONE DUELS, TEAM BATTLES 
~

#934
-1 'one on one duels'~
ONE ON ONE DUELS 

One on One Duels: One person will be chosen by the God in charge.  This person
will be allowed to challenge someone else of his choosing.  Other than their
light, weapon, and cursed items, all other pieces of equipment must be removed.
Sanctuary shall be given to both participants at the start of the duel.                                                            

No abilities that affect more than one person may be used.  This includes
iceball, fireball, firestorm, icestorm, hurricane, and earthquake.   

See also HELP: BATTLE ROYALE, TEAM BATTLES
~

#935
-1 'team battles'~
TEAM BATTLES

Teams will be picked by the God in charge (usually Mhalador).  Your desires
to be partnered with someone else may be expressed in a polite manner
whether or not the God wishes to hear go through with your wishes is his/her
choice.  Teams may NOT work with other teams to defeat a third party.   

See also HELP: BATTLE ROYALE, ONE ON ONE DUELS
~

#936
-2 psion~ 'MIND BLAST'~
MIND BLAST		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'mind blast' <victim>

 The most powerful damage spell in common Psion arsenal, mind blast
directs a stream of destructive mental energies into the victim's mind.
The resulting mental anguish is equally damaging to flesh and mind regardless 
of save against this spell. 

See Also: Help MIND THRUST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND DISRUPTION
~

#937
-2 psion~ 'MIND DISRUPTION'~
MIND DISRUPTION		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'mind disruption' <victim>

 A staple damage spell which not only causes powerful anguish to
any mind it is directed at, but also makes concentration and 
spell casting progressively more difficult with each unsuccessful
save against this spell. 

See Also: Help MIND THRUST, PSIONIC BLAST, MIND BLAST
~

#938
-2 psion~ 'FLESH ARMOR'~
FLESH ARMOR

Syntax: cast 'flesh armor'

By adjusting their epidermal cells, psions can harden their 
skin allowing them to deflect away more damage.
~

#939
-2 psion~ 'DETECT AURA'~
DETECT AURA

Syntax: cast 'detect aura' 

The already sensitive mind of a PSIONICSTS can be further tuned
to detect various properties of the world about them.  Using this
simple spell the caster can detect good, evil, invisible and
magical auras.
~

#940
-2 psion~ 'METABOLIC BRAKE'~
METABOLIC BRAKE

Syntax: cast 'metabolic brake'

 Using their mental powers the psionicsts are able to slow down
their natural metabolic rate.  Though this results in slower and
more difficult movement. The body and mind in this state are capable 
of much faster regeneration and can partially ignore effects of 
toxins.

 See Also: HELP METABOLIC BOOST
~

#941
-2 psion~ 'REMOVE MAGIC'~
REMOVE MAGIC              AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'remove magic' <victim> 

  This spell is a super charged version of the normal dispel magic
and affects anyone grouped with the victim of the spell.  Once cast
the remove magic spell will attempt to dispel spells on the 
victim and any of his group mates.

 See also: HELP DISPEL MAGIC
~

#942
-2 psion~ 'MAGIC EYE'~
MAGIC EYE

Syntax: cast 'magic eye'

  The spell summons a large floating eye with ability to flawlessly
camouflage itself into the environment.  This magical eye will then
report any activity in its immediate area, as well as any threats
to the cast that are present nearby.
~

#943
-2 psion~ WISH~
WISH

Syntax: cast 'wish'

  By reaching out with their minds out into the higher realms of
consciousness, a Psionicsts may make contact with a benign force and
wish for limited aid in his or her cause.  Beware however, though
a slightest slip in control can twist the wish into a conduit of
suffering and harm.
~

#944
-2 psion~ 'METABOLIC BOOST'~
METABOLIC BOOST

Syntax: cast 'metabolic boost' 

Using their mental powers the psionicsts are able to speed up
their natural metabolic rate.  Thus accelerated they are able
to fight and travel much faster then usual. 

See Also: HELP METABOLIC BRAKE
~

#945
-2 psion~ 'GRAFT WEAPON'~
GRAFT WEAPON

Syntax: cast 'graft weapon' 

  With slight manipulation of their hands and the weapon they 
wield, the caster of this spell can physically join the weapon
and his hands into a single shape.  Once cast the weapon 
cannot be removed by any means until the spell expires or
is cancelled.
~

#946
-2 psion~ 'PSI AMP'~
PSI AMP

Syntax: Automatic 

 When under effect of the amplifier the psionicst's offensive
spells have the ability to totally ignore their victim's magical
resistance and thus prevent any save versus spell roll.
 Each offensive spell which is affected by the psi amp contains
a power rating in its help scrolls.  The spell may be rated at
one of three levels: WEAK, MEDIUM, STRONG. 

WEAK  : Save vs Spell denied if saves are weak or non-existent
MEDIUM: Save vs Spell denied even if saves are of average amount
STRONG: Save vs Spell denied against all but most protected opponents 

NOTE:  Magical or Mental resistance will decrease the amplification
power by one level.  Hence STRONG amplification against a resistant
opponent will be treated as MEDIUM.  Mental vulnerability has an
opposite effect.
~

#947
-2 psion~ SUBVOCALIZE~
SUBVOCALIZE

Syntax: cast 'subvocalize'

 Though psionic spells are mental in nature and draw their power 
from the formidable minds of their casters, a PSIONICSTS under normal
condition still requires specific incarnations to focus and control
the powers of his or her mind.  This spell once cast aids this ritual
of concentration and focus and allows the caster to complete their
spells without any vocal component.
~

#948
-2 psion~ 'PSI FOCUS'~
PSI FOCUS

  A member of Psion guild once experienced must make a crucial choice
in his or her studies and focus on a particular area in which the growing
powers of his mind will be applied. 

  Kinesis  : Creation of various elemental and physical effects
  Telepathy: Study of mind, mental communication and dreams
  Illusion : Creation of false perceptions and deadly illusions 

See also: HELP PSI LORE
~

#949
-2 psion~ 'PSI LORE'~
PSI LORE

  An experienced Psion draws on the choice of his focus and further
develops his or her powers by prolonged study of one of the following
disciplines:

  Kinesis  ->Destruction
  Telepathy->Domination
  Illusion ->Alteration 

See also: HELP PSI FOCUS
~

#950
-2 psion~ KINESIS~
KINESIS

Syntax: automatic 

  Those Psionicsts whom wish to dwell on more destructive and flashy uses
of their minds may focus their studies on mysteries of this skill.  

The following spells depend on arts of Kinesis:

  Pyro Kinesis
  Cryo Kinesis
  Hydro Kinesis
  Electro Kinesis
  Tele Kinesis
  Photon Blast
  Psionic Blast
  Psychic Purge
  Mindsurge

See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, DESTRUCTION
~

#951
-2 psion~ DESTRUCTION~
DESTRUCTION

  The culmination the path first begun by focusing on Kinesis, the
PSIONICSTS Lore of Destruction allows the pupil to call forth powers
of unimaginable destruction.

The following spells depend on arts of Destruction:

  Singularity
  Amorphous Infection
  Entropic Touch
  Breach
  Disintegrate 

See also: HELP PSI LORE, KINESIS
~

#952
-2 psion~ 'PYRO KINESIS' 'CRYO KINESIS' 'HYDRO KINESIS' 'ELECTRO KINESIS' 
'TELE KINESIS' PYRO CRYO HYDRO ELECTRO TELE~
PRYO KINESIS, CRYO KINESIS, HYDRO KINESIS, ELECTRO KINESIS, TELE KINESIS
AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'pyro    kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'cryo    kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'hydro   kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'electro kinesis' <victim>
        cast 'tele    kinesis' <victim> 

These spells use the mental powers of kinesis to generate basic elemental
energies and bind them around the victim.  Once cast the effect will continue
to damage its victim regardless of casters presence in approximate area.
The initial duration of the kinesis field is quite short, however it can
be further charged by re-casting the spell on the victim.

Each of the kinesis spells uses its element as is damage agent with telekinesis
using mental forces to control air in offensive fashion. 

See also: KINESIS
~

#953
-2 psion~ 'PHOTON BLAST'~
PHOTON BLAST             AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'photon blast' <victim>

 By concentrating a stream of photons in a directed beam the caster
can create a powerful blast of light based energy.  This photon blast
is not only powerful enough to pierce through full plate of armor, but
due to its nature is particularly deadly to undead and can leave them
drained of all vitality. 

See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#954
-2 psion~ 'PSYCHIC PURGE'~
PSYCHIC PURGE           AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'psychic purge' <victim>
  A skilled Psion may take advantage of a momentary weakness in
his opponents mental defenses, and with a sudden strike of mental power
partially purge them.  The affected victim for the duration of the
spell will be partially vulnerable to any mental damage. 

See Also: HELP KINESIS
~

#955
-2 psion~ 'MINDSURGE'~
MINDSURGE

Syntax: cast 'mindsurge' 

  By short-circuiting the pain centers of their psyche and tapping 
hidden reservoirs of power inside their minds, psions are capable
of temporarily boosting the raw power of their spells.  While under
the effects of mindsurge, all Psionic damage spells will do maximum
possible damage (subject to save vs spell).

See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#956
-2 psion~ 'PSIONIC BLAST'~
PSIONIC BLAST          AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'Psionic blast'

  Unlike most of the psionic mental damage spells which relay on 
delicate and skillful manipulation of victim's brain.  This spell
is the epitome of brute mental force.  By storing mental forces
in his own mind until they burst like a dam, the caster releases
a fearsome blast of psionic energy all around him.  Anyone unlucky
to be hit by this tidal wave of pain may become paralyzed for
extended amount of time.

See also: HELP KINESIS
~

#957
-2 psion~ SINGULARITY~
SINGULARITY          AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'singularity'

  In demonstration of the finality of mind's power, a Psion
may use this spell to temporarily bend the fabric of space unto
itself and create a miniature singularity: A wormhole.
Those failing a saving throw against this spell are affected 
by the vicious effects this has on gravity, and will find themselves 
contemplating the true meaning of the phrase 'gravity sucks'. 

See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#958
-2 psion~ 'ENTROPIC TOUCH'~
ENTROPIC TOUCH       AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'Entropic touch' <victim>

  When this spell is cast a field of pure entropy surrounds the caster's 
palm.  If the caster manages to make contact against the victim's armor
the field will instantaneously surround it.  The affected armors are then
rendered totally useless until the entropic field dissipates. 

See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#959
-2 psion~ 'AMORPHOUS INFECTION'~
AMORPHOUS INFECTION  AMPLIFICATION: SPECIAL

Syntax: cast 'amorphous infection' victim 

  Psions can pull amorphous creatures from other planes into our own, with 
only a tiny adjustment to the atoms in the air. In this case, an amorphous form 
of perhaps one centimeter by one centimeter will be pulled through, and it will 
instantly attack the victim. Each hour it remains on its host it will become 
more powerful, and deal a small bit more damage to them. When its host becomes
close to death, it will attach itself to the nearest healthiest creature
around.  The only way for these shapeless beings to be extinguished is for
someone to weaken with no-one near them.

NOTE: This spell normally counts as WEAK amplification except against unnatural
or summoned begins including undead, demons and avatars.  Against such beings
the spell counts as STRONG.

See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#960
-2 psion~ BREACH~
BREACH

Syntax: cast 'breach' <victim>

  When cast, this spell creates and contains a small fission reaction in 
a tunnel of about hair's width directed at the victim.  The force resulting 
from this directed containment is of such magnitude that it will overpower
and without chance to save remove all PROTECTIVE enchantments on the victim.
 
See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#961
-2 psion~ DISINTEGRATE~
DISINTEGRATE

Syntax: cast 'disintegrate' <victim>

  Though many beneficial psionic spells depend on directed re-organization
of molecular structure, only this dreaded spell has ever been constructed
with the precise goal of using this ability against living things.  When
cast the Psionicsts for the shortest of instants removes cohesion between
molecules of its target lowering its hit points by 25% without a chance to
save.  If the victim lacks the fortitude to further resist the disintegration
they will potentially suffer massive damage to their constitution for an 
extended amount of time.

See also: HELP DESTRUCTION
~

#962
-1 MEMORIZE FORGET~
MEMORIZE FORGET

Syntax: memorize
        memorize <spell>
        memorize <spell set>
        forget <spell>
        forget <all>
 
  In order for a spell to be cast you must first choose to store it in
your memory so it may be memorized upon meditation.  Similarly if you
decided that a particular spell serves no more use to you, or another
spell is more important.  You may forget it in order for it to be replaced.

You are provided with number of spell sets to switch between at will.  Use
"memorize <number>" to select a given set.  From there on all other 
memorize and forget commands will apply to that particular spell set. 

See also: MEMORY SPELLS, PSI CIRCLES
~

#963
-1 'MEMORY SPELLS'~
MEMORY SPELLS

 Though majority of classes in Age of Mirlan require no memorization of spells
(they can cast any number of spells as long as mana is available), there are 
certain classes which use this system of spell casting.  In this system a spell
must be first meditated upon before it can be cast by its user.  The commands
"memorize" and "forget" are used to select which spells of various power you
wish to memorize during your meditation.  Once you are satisfied with your
choice, meditate until all of the spells are memorized.

See also: HELP MEMORIZE, FORGET, PSI CIRCLES
~

#964
-1 PSION PSIONS PSI PSIONICS~
PSION PSIONS PSI PSIONICS

To be accepted into the secret society of the Psionicst one must be of 
superior intellect and unquestioned masters of their current magical 
craft. The Psi manipulates mana by drawing their power from their own 
mind rather than magical incantations from the Mystic energy around 
them. By doing so they are capable of the most powerful feats of 
magic ever seen. However, when performed such abilities are lost until 
properly meditated into memory once more. Meditation is the lifeblood 
of the Psi and their most coveted of rituals, a time when the mind is at 
peace and released from all existing spell maintenance. The particular 
abilities of the Psi are secretive and mysterious. Yet it is rumored that 
the  Psi can specialize their focus on melee, mental or destructive circles
of study.    

 See also: HELP PSION REQUIREMENTS
~

#965
-2 psion~ DEATHMARE~
DEATHMARE

Syntax: dreamwalk deathmare

  Though normally the waking and dream world have no effect
upon each other, once a dreamwalk is started the illusion
of dreaming is so perfect and the mind to attuned that
whatever harm a dreamer suffers begins to be reflected in
the waking world.

Those whom posses this ability may use this fact to create
vicious nightmares that leave their victims scarred for
life or just plain dead. 

See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#966
-2 psion~ MINDMELT~
MINDMELT

Syntax: dreamwalk mindmelt

  A dreaming person's mind can be explored and studied during
a dreamwalk.  Once the key weak points are mapped a full assault
upon its defenses will quickly reduce the victim's resistance
to mental spells. 

See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#967
-2 psion~ DREAMPROBE~
DREAMPROBE

Syntax: dreamwalk dreamprobe

  Though most of the dreamwalk abilities focus on aggressive
alteration of victim's dreams, the dreamprobe's focus is on
passive study and observations.  Using this dreamwalk the
Psionicsts may find out exact strength and abilities of its
victim and create a special dreamlink.  This special link
will not only allow the Psion to sense whenever its
victim enters the dreaming and waking state, but also 
to dreamwalk the person's dreams regardless of the distance
between them.

See Also: HELP DREAMWALK, TELEPATHY
~

#968
-2 psion~ 'SPELL VISE'~
SPELL VISE                 AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'spell vise' <victim>

  By applying techniques similar to that of dreamwalk the user
of this spell can create a powerful field of mental pressure
aimed at its victim's subconscious psyche.  The steady mental
assault this field creates, guided by the Psionicsts will quickly
remove any beneficial enchantments the victim might be sustaining.
The duration of this spell is halved on successful save.

See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#969
-2 psion~ 'MANA TRAP'~
MANA TRAP

Syntax: cast 'mana trap'

   By tuning into the magical and mental processes in their 
immediate vicinity, the Psionicsts under the effects of this
spell can harness the raw magical energy expanded by anyone
who directs a harmful spell in their direction.  The mana
expanded to cast the spell is trapped and stored by the
caster of this enchantment. 

See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#970
-2 psion~ 'SPELL TRAP'~
SPELL TRAP

Syntax: cast 'spell trap' 

  Using a process similar to the one utilized by mana trap spell the user of
this spell can trap the mental essence of a harmful spell being cast in their
direction and use it to replenish their own spells.  As a result the owner of
this enchantment will gain a spell in the Circle equivalent to the spell
trapped.

Example:  A level 38 (4th circle) spell Hellstream has been cast at the
          PSIONICSTS.  The Psion would the gain a single 4th Circle spell on
          his memory as if it was meditated upon normally. 

See also: HELP TELEPATHY, PSI CIRCLES
~

#971
-2 psion~ DOMINATION~
DOMINATION

The culmination of the path first begun by focusing on telepathy, 
the Psionicst Lore of Domination gives the pupil the power to control
and destroy minds as he or she sees fit. 

The following spells depend on arts of Destruction:
  Soul Pump
  Total Recall
  Masochism
  Unminding
  Brain Death

See also: HELP PSI LORE, KINESIS
~

#972
-2 psion~ 'SOUL PUMP'~
SOUL PUMP		AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'soul pump' <victim>

  A vicious and cruel spell which takes over the victim's mind and body and
forces it to unwillingly share some of its health, mind power and vitality to
the caster.  The force of the transfer is strongly affected by the difference
between the state of victim and state of the caster's health, mind power and
vitality.

See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#973
-2 psion~ 'SPELL BLAST'~
SPELL BLAST               AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'spell blast'
        cast 'spell blast' <amount of mana>

 A somewhat unique and semi-sentient spell, this enchantment will automatically
attempt to interrupt casting of any spell directed towards the Psionicsts while
its being formed in a caster's mind.  The cost to destroy the spell is three
times higher then amount of mana required to cast it and deducted only if the
spell blast is successful (failed save vs mental spells).  The caster can
specify the amount of mana to use for spell blast and further add mana as long
as the spell is in effect. 

See also: HELP TELEPATHY
~

#974
-2 psion~ MASOCHISM~
MASOCHISM               AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'masochism' <victim>

  By controlling the victim's mind in a most basic yet subtle
way the PSIONICSTS is capable of turning their own mind against them.
The victim of this spell might turn on themselves each time an 
opportunity to exact physical damage on their flesh arises. 

See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#975
-2 psion~ 'TOTAL RECALL'~
TOTAL RECALL

Syntax: cast 'total recall'

  At their peak of power and training those of PSIONICSTS guild whom have
achieved total control of their own minds may attempt to instantaneously
remember the details of all the spells they are planning to meditate upon.
Once cast, this spell will restore ALL the spells in current memory set with
exception of total recall. 

See also: HELP DOMINATION, MEMORIZE
~

#976
-2 psion~ 'BRAIN DEATH'~
BRAIN DEATH

Syntax: cast 'brain death' <victim>

  This dreadful and deadly spell focuses the full power of Psions's skills of
domination and telepathy and turns them towards a single purpose: Elimination
of every trace of intelligence in the victim.  There is no saving throw against
this magical abomination. 

See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#977
-2 (null)~ UNMINDING~
UNMINDING

Syntax: cast 'unminding' <victim> 

  This fearsome and barbaric spell once unleashed upon its victim begins
to shred and twist the very fabric of the being's memories and experiences.
The greater the sum of accumulated experience the greater the damage resulting
from this terrible spell.  A side effect of this terrible unminding the victim
loses all racial defenses against any sort of mental attack be it damage or a
spell.

 See also: HELP DOMINATION
~

#978
-1 DRUGS DRUG HERBS HERB LEAVES~
DRUGS DRUG HERBS HERB LEAVES

Rolling dried leaves and herbs into a long tube, lighting it with a small
flame, and then breathing in the smoke was first developed by the
Druidic Order.  The rangers soon took up this hobby, and from them the
rest of the world came to recognize the value of drugs.  Known as both
a luxury and an aid in certain circumstances, there are nevertheless
disadvantages in pursuing this activity.

SEE ALSO: SMOKE, PRESERVE
~

#979
-1 SMOKE~
SMOKE

Syntax: smoke <herbs/leaves>

The act of inhaling the fumes given off by burning herbs and/or leaves,
this is required for one to receive the benefits from a drug. 

SEE ALSO: DRUGS, PRESERVE
~

#980
-1 PRESERVE~
PRESERVE

Syntax: preserve <herbs/leaves>

While those living in the forest could gather the plants as was needed,
city-dwellers were not so lucky.  They found that the herbs collected
from only a few days ago would quickly rot away into useless dirt.
A solution was quickly found by the Thief Guilds.  Today,
they are the only ones who know how to preserve drugs. 

SEE ALSO: DRUGS, SMOKE
~

#981
-1 EXOTIC~
EXOTIC

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons are those which do not easily fall into any other
category.  Often they are magical or strange items, or weapons 
specific to some culture or profession.

Exotics are more offensive then polearms, and easier to defend
with then flails.  They disarm better then flails, shield-disarm
better then whips, and are easier to disarm then whips.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#982
-1 SWORD~
SWORD

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons encompass all manner of blades which are more then
10 inches in length including cutting or pointed blades. They are 
the most common type of weapon found in the lands.

Swords are more offensive then spears, and easier to defend
with then daggers. They disarm better then daggers, shield-disarm
better then spears and are easier to disarm then spears.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#983
-1 DAGGER~
DAGGER

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons include all types of blades under 10 inches in length
such as knifes dirks, stilettos and daggers.  Blades may be single
or double edged or pointed.

Daggers are more offensive then staffs, and easier to defend
with then maces. They disarm better then polearms, shield-disarm 
worse then spears and are easier to disarm then polearms.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#984
-1 MACE~
MACE

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons relay on brute kinetic force to cause the damage
and are more effective against armored foes then edged weapons.
Maces, hammers and war-hammers belong to this category.
Maces are identical to exotics in terms of offense and defense. 
They disarm better then spears, shield-disarm better then staffs 
and are easier to disarm then exotics.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#985
-1 AXE~
AXE

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons are usually composed of a chopping, weighted blade
affixed to a haft, with a balanced weight or secondary blade
opposite to the primary blade.

Axes are more offensive then flails, and easier to defend with 
then whips. They disarm better then staffs, shield-disarm better 
then polearms and are easier to disarm then daggers.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#986
-1 FLAIL~
FLAIL

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons originate from the simple grain-thrashing farmer
flail composed of two wooden parts bound by rope.  Military
flails and morning stars usually include a round head chained
to a haft or handle.

Flails are more offensive then maces or exotics, and easier to 
defend with then axes. They disarm better then swords, shield-
disarm better then exotics and are easier to disarm then maces.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#987
-1 WHIP~
WHIP

Syntax:  automatic

These weapons maybe as simple as a length of leather or as
devious as barbed cat-o-nine tail.  In proper hands their
blow can easily shred hardened leather and be practically 
impossible to avoid.

Whips are more offensive and harder to defend with then axes.
They disarm better then exotics, shield-disarm better then axes 
and are harder to disarm then exotics.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#988
-1 POLEARM GLAIVE~
POLEARM

Syntax:  automatic

Polearms include lances, scythes, halberds and glaives.  In case 
of the latter two they are composed of an axe like blade attached 
to a long 6-8 foot haft and usually adorned with various hooks and
barbs.

Polearms are more offensive then swords, and easier to defend with 
then spears. They disarm better then staffs, shield-disarm better 
then maces and are easier to disarm then flails.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#989
-1 STAFF~
STAFFS

Syntax:  automatic

These simple weapons are often nothing then a length of wood
cut to height of 3 to 6 feet.  More intricate variations with
iron shod or bladed ends have also seen use.

Staffs are less offensive then daggers, and easier to defend
with then polearms.  They disarm better then mace, shield-
disarm better then swords, and are easier to disarm then swords.

See also: HELP WEAPONS, PUGIL
~

#990
-1 SPEAR~
SPEAR

Syntax:  automatic

These ancient weapons require only a long haft and a sharpened
tip.  The length of the haft varies from short one handed spears
to 21 feet pikes meant to halt cavalry charges.  Variations include
awl-pikes and barbed spears.

Spears are more offensive and easier to defend with then daggers.
They disarm worse then maces, shield-disarm better then daggers and
are easier to disarm then axes.

See also: HELP WEAPONS
~

#991
-1 FERAL FERALS~
FERAL

Through the taint of magic from a long since forgotten Arch-Mage a tribe of
of people who lived not too far from the mages strong hold were used in
experiments of this evil lord.  

After hundreds of years of genetic manipulation, torture and mental assault
on the minds of these people their bodies and minds began to evolve into a 
more animalistic form.  With the physical change came mental changes as well.

These people once known as the Ferishalli became known simply as "The Feral."

A strong leader came to sit on the Feral's council and convinced the Feral to
rise up against this dark arch mage and free themselves from his slavery and 
torture.  The struggle was monumental.  Lasting but a few short hours the
Feral eventually overcame the arch mage at a high price.  Nearly all had been
destroyed and nearly wiped out completely.  The battle took men, women and
children alike.  Leaving but a few of the younger of the tribe behind.

Soon after the battle, the tribe disbanded.  Heated arguments over how best
to run the tribe and who would be the new leaders broke this once strong and
ancient people up.  Now, over the hundreds of years of freedom, Feral have
become very bent on keeping their individual freedoms.  Tribe mentality all
but washed from their way of thinking.

Feral can be the following classes: 

Warrior, Ranger, Thief, Cleric, and Shaman 

See Also: HELP FURY, SENSE MOTION
~

#992
-1 FURY~
FURY

Syntax: fury <target>

 The feral, with their need for survival, have developed a way to utilize their
emotion in combat. Combining their great fury with their blazing speed, they
have been known to execute a blazing flurry of blows unto their opponent.
These blows, typically targeted at the face, have the intent to terrify and
confuse their opponents. Those affected by the strike have a difficult time
concentrating on their spells and faith, as they must cope with the
excruciating pain. A complex technique to execute, only those feral of 
moderately high rank are able to utilize this maneuver. 

See also: HELP FERAL
~

#993
-2 (null)~ ILLUSION~
ILLUSION

Syntax: automatic

Being a more subtle focus, the path of Illusion is concentrated on the 
manipulation of the senses and the indirect exploitation of the mind. 
The following spells depend on arts of Illusion:

  False Weapon
  Shadow Door
  Mirror Cloak
  Numbness
  Nerve Amp
  Mirage
  Blink
  Duplicate
  Spook 

See also: HELP PSI FOCUS, ALTERATION
~

#994
-2 (null)~ Alteration~
ALTERATION

Syntax: automatic

   Those psions who focus upon altering the state of matter and
other people delve into this path of study.
The following spells depend on arts of Alteration:

  Time Compression
  Planar Rift
  Molecular Leash
  Petrify
  Paralyze 

See also:  HELP PSI FOCUS, ILLUSION
~

#995
-2 (null)~ 'Time Compression'~
TIME COMPRESSION

Syntax: cast 'time compression'

  Manipulating the threads of temporal energies that surround this world,
psions are able to speed up time as it relates to themselves.  Upon
invoking this power, the Psions will be granted superhuman speed, and
every attack he is normally capable of dealing will instead be dealt twice. 

See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#996
-2 (null)~ 'Planar Rift'~
PLANAR RIFT

Syntax: cast 'planar rift'

  By unceremoniously rending a tear in the fabrics of reality, the Psions
is able to create a blade-shaped plane of force with which he is able to use
as if it were a weapon.  This blade is infinitely sharp, technically being
composed of nothing but pure force, and is known to be particularly effective
against undead opponents. 

See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#997
-2 (null)~ 'FALSE WEAPON'~
FALSE WEAPON

Syntax: cast 'false weapon' <type>

In this simple trick, the Psions uses their mind to cloak their weapon. The 
weapon, thus cloaked, appears to be of a different type. The sight of a Psion's
measly stick suddenly being transformed into a bristling double-bladed waraxe
has persuaded many opponents to choose other targets.

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#998
-2 (null)~ 'SHADOW DOOR'~
SHADOW DOOR

Syntax: cast 'shadow door' 

A staple of the Illusionist's arsenal, the shadow door spell allows the 
PSIONICSTS to trick their opponents while fleeing. The Psions appears to step
through a black door, thus evading their opponent entirely whenever they choose
to retreat. A skilled Psions also been known to flee right through any physical
barriers. Upon fleeing, they immediately cloak themselves in an invisibility
spell to make the illusion complete. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#999
-2 (null)~ 'Molecular Leash'~
MOLECULAR LEASH		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'molecular leash' 

  This potent spell possesses the ability to stop it's victim dead in their
tracks, literally.  When invoked upon someone, that person is bound to the
caster by a line of super-dense air molecules lashed around their neck.  If
the victim attempts to flee, the leash draws itself tighter around their neck,
and prevents the attempted flight.  While short-lasted, this spell can be
used to great effect when properly utilized.

 See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1000
-2 (null)~ petrify~
PETRIFY

Syntax: cast 'petrify'

  Known by only the most powerful of psions, this viscous spell turns
the victim into a lifeless statue in all aspects.  While under the effects
of this alteration, the individual is completely and utterly helpless, unable
to move, think, or perform any other action.  However, like the stone they
are composed of, they are totally immune to all physical attacks.  This spell
has never been known to fail, and once begun, this enchantment spells doom
for almost everyone. 

See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1001
-2 (null)~ paralyze~
PARALYZE

Syntax: cast 'paralyze'

  Those who possess this deadly power are thankfully rare in existence.  Upon
casting, the fluids within the victim's body are frozen nearly solid, and
normal movement becomes very difficult.  The effects of stunning attacks are
increased upon a paralyzed victim, and unfortunately, this alteration lasts
for a substantial amount of time.  As with other powers of it's circle, this
spell possesses the ability to bypass any resistance or other protections the
victim may have.

 See also:  HELP ALTERATION
~

#1002
-2 (null)~ 'MIRROR CLOAK'~
MIRROR CLOAK

Syntax: cast 'mirror cloak'

 By focusing the powers of their mind, the Psions is capable of shrouding 
themselves in a reflective field. This field causes any who choose to view the 
caster to see themselves instead. This includes all physical properties and
magical auras surrounding the person being reflected. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1003
-2 (null)~ 'NERVE AMP'~
NERVE AMP	AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'nerve amp' <target>

By strengthening certain signals sent throughout the body, a skilled Psions is
capable of altering their opponent's perception of pain. While thus affected 
the opponent will start to feel the wounds of battle earlier, and will
typically be panicked into a hasty retreat. This is the reverse of the numbness
illusion. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1004
-2 (null)~ 'NUMBNESS'~
NUMBNESS	AMPLIFICATION: STRONG

Syntax: cast 'numbness' <target>
This illusion causes the target's nervous system to slow down. The thus
affected will be slow to feel any pain received in battle, and an insidious
Psions will be capable of making them commit longer than their bodies can
handle. This is the reverse of the nerve amp illusion. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1005
-2 (null)~ 'MIRAGE'~
MIRAGE		AMPLIFICATION: WEAK

Syntax: cast 'mirage' 

By creating multiple illusions around them, a Psions is capable of fooling
their opponents in combat. Even the most skilled warriors are overwhelmed as a 
multitude of weapons strike at them, never knowing which one is real. This
allows the Illusionist to easily slip in and hit the confused opponent. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1006
-2 (null)~ 'DUPLICATE'~
DUPLICATE

Syntax: cast 'duplicate'

A very complex spell, the Duplicate illusion is used to create a perfect
replica of another being. Once formed, the being will aid the caster in combat.
The replica is so perfect that the illusion is fully capable of harming real
objects. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1007
-2 (null)~ 'SPOOK'~
SPOOK		AMPLIFICATION: MEDIUM

Syntax: cast 'spook' <target>

 A powerful Psions is capable probing the inter reaches of the mind and 
extracting the greatest fears of a person. By melding these fears together,
they are capable of creating an apparition to torment their foe. This foe,
only visible by the affected, is so disturbing that even hardened soldiers have
been known to panic in an attempt to retreat. 

See also: HELP ILLUSION
~

#1008
-1 'ARMY PROMPT'~
ARMY PROMPT

Syntax: army [last]

 The army command toggles your army command mode on and off.  Using the
last keyword will automatically zoom in on the room of the last army report. 

 Recruits in cabal: decreased as members conscript, increased with time
  |  Regular units in your barracks: [C]onscripted
  |  | Elite units in your barracks: [T]rained from normal units
  |  | |          Barrack Orders  Current Map Number
  V  V V             |                |  
< 9: 2.3 >[APHGFB]-[CTR]-[ZMOQ]-[?] Map#7 : The Greate Wastes of Thule   
             |             |                      |
      Unit orders      Info Commands       Current map name
 
See Also: HELP ARMY, ARMY COMMANDS
~

#1009
-1 'physical perks'~
PHYSICAL PERKS

While similar to size perks, this category focuses on perks that effect
not your size, but your physical characteristics.  Healing capacity, mental
capacity and even physical health are possible choice you can make. 

Healthy:
You're an example of perfect health.  You heal faster then normal. 

Sickly:
You cough, wheeze, and learn faster then your peers. 

Stout:
You're healthier then normal, but your mana reserves are smaller. 

Nimble:
You can carry more items then normal, but you're weaker then normal. 

See Also:  PERKS
~

#1010
-1 'training perks'~
TRAINING PERKS

 Whether it was in a stuffy library or in the great outdoors, this branch
of perks reflects changes made by years of diligent study.  The studious
mage and the keen-eyed scout are possible choices here.
 
Bookworm:
Your love of books has paid off.  You are a master at reading scrolls.

Athletic:
Your athletic build make you stronger and more accurate then others. 

Artificer:
Your knowledge about magical artifacts, orbs and staves knows no equal. 

Tinkerer:
You own Brambusworks VIP scroll.  Your skill with wands is unmatched. 

Eagle-eye:
Your perfect eyesight allows you to scan and scout over longer distance. 

See Also:  PERKS
~

#1011
-1 'social perks'~
SOCIAL PERKS

Everyone loves a healthy smile.  Everyone loathes a bully.  This group
of perks indicates a certain talent, be it for good or ill, that tends
to get people to do what you want them to do. 

Charismatic:
You are a natural charmer and a master at haggling. 

Fearsome:
Your fearsome appearance makes creatures less aggressive. 

Greedy:
Avarice is your middle name.  You avoid paying bank transaction fees. 

See Also:  PERKS
~

#1012
-1 'addiction perks'~
ADDICTION PERKS

Face it, mortals have their weaknesses, and noone knows that better than
you.  Whether it is in a bottle or a pipe, you lose yourself in your
substance of choice, and have grown a tolerance to it. 

Alcoholic:
You love all things spiritual and ignore negative effects of alcohol.  

Addict:
You love all things chemical and resist negative effects of drugs.  

See Also:  PERKS
~

#1013
-1 'spiritual perks'~
SPIRITUAL PERKS

 If one thing is for certain in this world, it is that there are forces
beyond your comprehension at work.  You have seen this as a global truth,
and have either embraced or denied this.  Maybe you have the knack of
being in the right place at the right time or vice versa.  Either way,
someone is pulling string for you. 

Lucky:
Lady Luck fancies you.  Your luck tends to run higher then average.  

Unlucky:
Jinx is your middle name but you tend to grow healthier with ranks.

Pious:
Your faith has no equal.  Gods give you with more gold for sacrifices. 

Magical:
Your mana resources are greater but you're less healthy then normal. 

See Also:  PERKS
~

#1014
-1 AMATHE~
Amathe (AH-muh-thay)  Goddess of Love, Healing, Hearth; Halflings 

Alignment:  Neutral Good
Colors:     Red and brown
Symbol(s):  Hearth, white moon (Maete)
Raiment:    Red robes
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Midsummers Fest, Night of Goodwill, full moons (Maete)
Sacrifice:  Food, Money
Animal:     Dog
Avatar:     A short, plump apple-cheeked woman wearing an apron

  Amathe is the wife of Beronor and the mother of the Gods of 
Weal.  It is she who is ever ready to offer healing and rest to her 
husband and children in their struggles against the Lords of Strife.  
Often she has healed the other gods as well, including the ones bent on 
causing harm.

  Temples of Amathe are found in many areas and all are devoted to 
healing and helping the less fortunate.  Offerings given to the goddess 
are used to feed and clothe the poor.  Many of her clerics are pilgrims 
and travel the countryside, dispensing aid to all who need it.

  Clerics of Amathe are the most revered of all their brethren for 
the works they do.  They must always seek to aid those in need, even (or 
especially) at their own expense.  They may fight if necessary but only in 
self defense.
~

#1015
-1 BERONOR~
Beronor  (BARE-roh-nor)  God of the Sun, Light, Weal 

Alignment:  Neutral Good
Colors:     White and gold
Symbol(s):  Sunburst
Raiment:    White robes with gold trim
Temple:     Hall with gold dome
Holy Day(s):Summer Solstice, other equinoxes and solstices
Sacrifice:  Golden items
Animal:     Lion
Avatar:     Middle-aged man with golden skin and flaming crown

  Beronor, the Father, is the predominate deity of good and 
the father of many of the other Gods of Weal.  They strive against the 
plots of his brother, Morgorin, and that deitys lineage, known as the 
Lords of Strife.  Beronor and Morgorin are the highest order of deities 
short of the Primal Ones.

  Temples built to honor Beronor vary in structure but all share a 
similar feature: a great golden dome topping the innermost sanctuary.  The 
domes are pierced in such a way as to allow the sun to shine into the 
temple on the solstices and equinoxes.  The motions of the sun are thought 
to reflect the gods struggle against his dark brother.

	Clerics of Beronor are well known for their zeal in rooting out 
and destroying evil.  
~

#1016
-1 EJAMINA~
Ejamina  (eh-djuh-MEEN-uh)  Goddess of Forests, Animals, Hunting 

Alignment:  Neutral
Colors:     Green and silver
Symbol:     Bow with nocked arrow
Raiment:    Green robes
Temple:     Grove of trees or forest
Holy Day(s):Solstices and equinoxes
Sacrifice:  Animal
Avatar:     A green-skinned woman in huntsman garb carrying a bow

  Ejamina is the Mistress of the Hunt and the Forest Mother, 
the second youngest of the Five Sisters of the World.  She roams the 
forests eternally, sometimes in the company of Arondos, and cares little 
of the affairs of men.

  Because of her neutral alignment, druids usually act as her priesthood.  
They built sacred groves of trees dedicated to her and within these occur 
her rites.  
     
~

#1017
-1 FELANA~
Felana  (FAY-lahn-na)  Goddess of Air, Sky, Wind 

Alignment:  Chaotic Good
Colors:     White and blue
Symbol:     White cloud against a sky blue background
Raiment:    White shawl and blue kilt
Temple:     Pillared circle open to the sky
Holy Day(s):None specific
Sacrifice:  Birds, items of silver
Animal:     Hawk
Avatar:     Silver-haired woman clad in silver armor astride a cloud horse

  Felana is the second oldest of the Five Sisters of the 
World, the daughters of Gaemina who created Mirlan.  Where the rest of the 
sisters are either unconcerned with men or oftentimes hostile, she is a 
protector of them.  Of the Elemental Gods, only she is of good alignment.

  Temples to Felana are built as high as possible, mountains being 
especially desirable locations.  Many of her ceremonies involve the 
simultaneous release of hundreds of birds because of this, seeing a flock 
of rising birds is proof that the goddesss attention is nearby.	Clerics of
Felana tend to be adventurers and, like the wind they serve, move freely about.
~

#1018
-1 IXTAROS~
Ixtaros  (icks-TAHR-rohss)  God of War, Slaughter, Vengeance 

Alignment:  Chaotic Evil
Colors:     Red and bronze
Symbol(s):  Severed head over two jagged spear blades, red moon (Ixtare)
Raiment:    Bare-chested with bronze greaves and red kilt
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Full red moon (Ixtare)
Sacrifice:  Battle captives or weapons and armor
Animal:     Tiger
Avatar:     Black skinned bare-chested man with the head of a tiger, carrying 
            a bronze spear and riding in a chariot drawn by two tigers.

  Ixtaros is the son of Morgorin and Veshalma and is the father of the Lords
of Strife.  Ixtaros is responsible for war in all its barbarous fury and
bloodletting, unlike Tiradels code of chivalry and honor.  Ixtare, the red
moon created by Sahaeyeh, was taken in battle by Ixtaros and now proclaims
his power to the heavens.
	
  Temples to Ixtaros vary but many include means of viewing Ixtare 
at its fullness.  Nearly all the humanoid races worship Ixtaros as their 
patron deity, especially the more warlike ones, like gnolls and hobgoblins.
Human sacrifice is very common among such tribes. Clerics of Ixtaros are
expected to be in the thick of battle.  
~

#1019
-1 LOJANI~
Lojani  (LOH-jahn-nee)  Goddess of Fresh Water, Rivers, Rain 

Alignment:  Neutral
Colors:     Blue and green
Symbol(s):  Waterfall or vessel emptying water
Raiment:    Nude
Temple:     Always incorporating a natural body of water
Holy Day(s):Solstices and equinoxes
Sacrifice:  Items of value tossed into a holy body of water
Animal:     Fish
Avatar:     A young woman whose green hair covers her bare upper body, her
            lower half being a column of water.

  Lojani is the youngest of the Five Sisters of the World and, like her sister
Ejamina, more concerned with nature than with mankind proper.  Unlike the rest
of the Elemental Deities, her sphere of water is divided with her sister
Veshalma, who rules over the salt waters of the world.

  Temples to Lojani always have a sacred body of water near them, be it a pond,
lake, or river.  Within this holy pool, the most sacred rites are performed by
her druidic priesthood.  
~

#1020
-1 MARKUL~
Markul  (MAHR-kul) -- God of Time, Truth, and LAW (Greater Deity)

Alignment:  Lawful Neutral
Colors:     Purple and copper
Symbol(s):  Scales or Hourglass, also star and crescent (Astrelas)
Raiment:    Purple robes, copper skullcaps, and beards for men
Temple:     Symmetrical building with copper dome
Holy Day(s):Night of Sorrow; 7th and 23rd of each month
Sacrifice:  Valuables, criminals (rare)
Animal:     Tarqin Bird
Avatar:     An old balding bearded man, tall and thin, clad in robes and 
            bearing a scale or hourglass

  Markul is the primary God of LAW and Time and to a lesser degree 
Order and Stability.  He is the foremost deity of Lawful Neutral and the 
oldest of the greater deities except Pajumet.  Markul is the father of 
Amathe through Pajumet and is himself descended from Gaemina and Noirylz, 
the Form.  His primary duty is to settle the disputes of the other gods 
and to keep the universe running smoothly forward.
	
  Markul is worshipped in temples, whose structure reaches their zenith in
Astrelas.  The temples are built cross-shaped and are surmounted by copper
domes and are decorated with many geometric symmetrical patterns.  It is
also common for courthouses and other places of justice to be used for the
worship of the deity.
~

#1021
-1 MORGORIN~
Morgorin (MOR-gur-in)  God of Death, Misery, Evil 

Alignment:  Neutral Evil
Colors:     Black and gray
Symbol(s):  Skull
Raiment:    Black cowled robe, high priests wear skull mask
Temple:     Underground hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the One Lamp, winter solstice, new moon 
Sacrifice:  Innocents
Animal:     Vulture
Avatar:     Black robed and cowled skeletal figure

  Morgorin is the personification of all the evil in the world as well as being
the Lord of the Dead.  He is one of the four great deities of Mirlan, being the
brother of Beronor and half brother to Pajumet and Markul.  Morgorin is active
among mortals, sowing evil and discord among them, directly as well as
directing his numerous servants.  The followers of Beronor, Rasazra, and Tiradel
actively oppose many of his schemes yet his plots are everywhere.

  The worship of Morgorin usually takes two forms.  For most people, he is a god
to be feared and placated, thus those not of evil alignment honor him in his
role as guardian of the dead.  Others serve him directly as the Evil One, hoping
for power and favor.  Ceremonies to Morgorin are held in underground temples,
oftentimes located within cities or their burial grounds.
~

#1022
-1 PAJUMET~
Pajumet  (Paa-JOO-met)  Goddess of Fate, Luck, Chance 

Alignment:  Chaotic Neutral
Colors:     Red and silver
Symbol(s):  Dice and cup
Raiment:    Red robes
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Varies
Sacrifice:  Valuables and treasure
Animal:     None
Avatar:     Old woman in raiment shifting from rich to poor, always in 
            possession of one or more gambling devices

  Pajumet is the one of the oldest gods and most powerful.  In ranking order
she is found with her brother Markul just below the Primal Ones, making her one
of the four strongest Greater Deities.  She has many worshippers, but is, as is
to be expected, a fickle goddess, and bestows luck on both sides capriciously.

  Temples to Pajumet are usually located in cities or towns as opposed to the
lonely countryside.  Dedicated to randomness, her priests are as likely to
hinder as to help.  
~

#1023
-1 SAHAEYEH~
Sahaeyeh (Suh-HI-yeh)  God of Earth, Smithing, Craftsmen; Dwarves 

Alignment:  Lawful Neutral
Colors:     Brown and gold
Symbol(s):  Hammer and anvil enclosed by a triangle
Raiment:    Leather apron, hammer
Temple:     Underground cavern with forge
Holy Day(s):All full and new moons
Sacrifice:  Crafted items of great skill or value
Animal:     None
Avatar:     A huge, immensely muscled dwarf clad in breeches and an apron

  Sahaeyeh is the master craftsman, the builder of all nonliving things.  He,
along with his siblings the Five Sisters of the World were given responsibility
for the continued creation of Mirlan by their mother, Gaemina.  While his
sisters made things of nature and life, Sahaeyeh forged the great treasures of
Mirlan: mountains, gemstones, and precious metals.  When Sahaeyeh first lit his
forge to begin his work, a bit of Primal creation leapt out and became
Tzaelcos, the God of Destruction, and the bane of all Sahaeyehs work.  Ever
these two gods make and destroy and their clerics continue on this eternal
struggle.  This is represented in the cycle of the moons, which Sahaeyeh built
and Tzaelcos attempts to destroy.  

Sahaeyeh is the Father of the Dwarves, for when his sisters brought forth life
he became jealous of a craft he did not have and smithed the dwarves in his
forge.

  Mountains and caverns are holy to Sahaeyeh and his temples are only found in
such locations.  Great treasures are given to sacrificial fires in the temple
forges during the full moons in celebration of Sahaeyehs skill and during new
moons to aid him in rebuilding them.
~

#1024
-1 TZAELCOS~
Tzaelcos  (TSILE-coss)  God of Fire, Destruction, Malice; Fire Giants

Alignment:  Chaotic Evil
Colors:     Red and yellow
Symbol(s):  Fireball enclosed in a triangle
Raiment:    Red and yellow robes with symbol on chest
Temple:     Hall with great fire
Holy Day(s):New moons
Sacrifice:  Beautiful items
Animal:     None
Avatar:     Being composed of flames wearing black iron armor and carrying a 
            two-handed sword

  Tzaelcos is an anomaly among the gods as he was not sired or  created by the
other deities, but instead leapt fully formed from Sahaeyehs forge when it was
first stoked.  Since then he has ever been at odds with him, seeking to destroy
all that the God creates and this is represented in the cycle of the moons.

  Places of worship for Tzaelcos always have great raging fires in their center
and the holiest places are in the inferno of the earth.  Offerings to the god
are tossed into the roaring flames to be consumed and are most often made to
avert the gods anger.
~

#1025
-1 VESHALMA~
Veshalma  (Vay-SHAL-muh)  Goddess of Weather, Oceans; Storm Giants

Alignment:  Chaotic Neutral
Colors:     Blue and Black
Symbol(s):  A wave surmounted by a storm cloud with a trident superimposed 
            over all
Raiment:    Either robes of blue and black or bronze plate mail armor
Temple:     Hall located near the sea
Holy Day(s):Varries
Sacrifice:  Valuables, animals, humans (rare)
Animal:     Shark and dolphin
Avatar:     A young child with fair hair swimming with a dolphin (peaceful) 
            OR a ancient crone in bronze plate mail carrying a trident and
            riding on the back of two sharks (angered)

  Veshalma is a deity of dualities and is, owing to this, the most capricious
deity of Mirlan with the exception of her mother Pajumet.
  
Veshalma is the oldest of the Five Sisters of the World but shares the element
of Water with her youngest sister Lojani.  Veshalma is herself divided, at
turns helping men with fair weather and cursing them with foul.  She is both
feared and loved by sailors, who accord her the greatest respect.
	
  Temples of Veshalma always are found on the edge of the sea, usually with
their sacred areas open to the surf.  The most frequent worship of the
Sea Mother is from the decks of ships as their crews beseech her for good
weather.  Offerings to her are dropped into the deep.  The spotting of dolphins
is a good omen just as the presence of sharks bodes ill.
~

#1026
-1 WUZAMULI~
Wuzamuli  (WOO-za-mool-ee)  Goddess of Disease, Pestilence, Famine

Alignment:  Neutral Evil
Colors:     Black and green
Symbol(s):  Leering rat head
Raiment:    Filthy robes of black and green
Temple:     Hall
Sacrifice:  Animals
Holy Day(s):New moon (Maete)
Animal:     Rat
Avatar:     Obese rat-headed nude woman covered with oozing sores and hordes 
            of rats licking at her

  When Mirlan was first formed it was a paradise for there was no sickness or
pain but the world was out of balance and Morgorin demanded his due.  Gaemina
created two new offspring, Wuzamuli and Bracc to correct the world to ensure
that it endured.  So Wuzamuli moves among men, sowing death in the form of
plagues, pestilence, famine, and other horrors.  

  Few mortals actively worship such a horrid goddess and yet temples to her
are not uncommon, for many seek to avert her from their lives.  Temples to her
are filthy and foul and vermin crawl everywhere.
~

#1027
-1 WYIHEMI~
Wyihemi  (Wye-HAY-mee)  Goddess of Fertility, Birth, Harvest 

Alignment:  Neutral Good
Colors:     Green and brown
Symbol(s):  Sheaf of grain
Raiment:    Nude
Temple:     Hall
Sacrifice:  Food, wealth
Holy Day(s):Autumnal Equinox, New Years Day
Animal:     Goat
Avatar:     Woman in peasant garb with sickle

  Wyihemi is responsible for the cycle of the continuation of life.  She is a
favored goddess and much revered among peasants.  She is the middle child of
the Five Sisters of the World and is at great odds with her other sister
Wuzamuli.

  Fertility rites are the staple form of worship for this deity and while
temples to her do exist, the majority of rituals occur in open fields.
Permanent structures for worship always have crops growing nearby as well as
livestock.  Clerics of Wyihemi are in great demand for the blessing of
children, fields, and livestock.
~

#1028
-1 ARONDOS~
Arondos  (uh-RON-dose)  God of Art, Music, Poetry; Elves (Lesser God)

Alignment:  Chaotic Good
Colors:     Yellow and green
Symbol(s):  Lyre or harp
Raiment:    Any
Temple:     Small shrines
Sacrifice:  Works of great originality and beauty
Holy Day(s):Nights of the Three Lamps, Night of Goodwill
Animal:     Songbird
Avatar:     A merry young man clad in the fashion of a wandering minstrel 
            with a songbird perched on his shoulder

  The youngest son of Beronor and Amathe, Arondos is a merry wanderer, roaming
the world creating and find new songs and poems.  Although a God of Weal, he
lacks the crusading zeal of his older brother Tiradel.  Although Ejamina is not
his wife, they sired the race of elves together, though Arondos is generally
seen as the patron of elves, not Ejamina.

  The worship of Arondos occurs in many places and it is uncommon to have
centers of worship larger than a shrine alongside some dusty road.  Most of his
clerics have the same wanderlust as their god and spend their lives traveling
throughout the lands.  There is a great kinship between the clerics of Arondos
and Dormicc and they often journey together.
~

#1029
-1 BRACC~
Bracc (BRAK)  God of Winter, Cold, Ice

Alignment:  Lawful Evil
Colors:     Blue and silver
Raiment:    Chainmail hauberk, decorative open-faced helm and battle-ax
Temple:     Great hall
Sacrifice:  Wealth, animals
Holy Day(s):Winter Solstice, Spring Equinox
Animal:     Wolf
Avatar:     A frost giant with a double-bitted ax and two wolves alongside

  When the world was first being formed, there was neither cold nor winter:
all was paradise.  Morgorin was angered for not receiving a portion of Mirlan.
His mother Gaemina, understanding her son and realizing all could not remain as
was created, made Bracc to bring winter and death for part of year, thereby
placating the Death God.  So it is each year at the winter solstice that Bracc
is freed to roam Mirlan but must depart with the spring equinox.

  Temples of Bracc of great halls, cold and drafty, with lofty ceilings and can
be found most anywhere in the northern reaches of Darengal.  They are active
mostly during the winter months though the god is honored all year long.
Clerics of Bracc seek to aid their deity in bringing ice and cold to the world
that he might wander longer each year.
~

#1030
-1 DABYULA~
Dabyula  (duh-BYOO-luh)  God of Magic, Dreams, Foresight (Lesser God)

Alignment:  Lawful Neutral
Colors:     Red and purple
Symbol(s):  A six pointed star inside a circle (hexagram) with primary or 
            secondary color in each arm and an open eye in its center atop a
            staff, the blue moon (Yulate)
Raiment:    Red robes with purple trim
Temple:     Hexagonal hall
Sacrifice:  Magic items
Holy Day(s):Midsummers Eve, phases of the blue moon (Yulate)
Animal:     Owl
Avatar:     An owl-headed robed man with a third eye, holding a rod and wand

  Dabyula is the god of mysticism in the forms of magic and dreams and is the
offspring of Sahaeyeh and Syithe.  Dabyula is deeply concerned with mankind and
sends visions and portents in the form of dreams or omens often.  Without 
Dabyula the races would not have the ability to work magic for it was he who
gave them that gift.

  The holiest night for Dabyula is Midsummers Eve, when the magical powers of
Mirlan are at their height.  Many great items are crafted on this evening and
clerics of Dabula are required for the blessing of them.  Because of this, it
is not unusual to find many clerics who are also skilled in the magical arts.
~

#1031
-1 DORMICC~
Dormicc  (DOHR-mick)  God of Travel, Quests, Adventures 

Alignment:  Chaotic Good
Colors:     Brown and blue
Raiment:    Well-worn boots and hood
Temple:     Small shrines at crossroads and other areas in the countryside
Holy Day(s):New Years Day
Sacrifice:  Pilgrimages
Animal:     Horse
Avatar:     A young man in worn and stained pilgrims clothes and high boots, 
            leading a horse

  Dormicc is one of the youngest gods and was not born in the usual manner, but
was created by Felana and Lojani to wander Mirlan and protect those who do
likewise.  Dormicc disdains cities and towns, instead preferring to roam the
wilderness aiding fellow travelers in need.

  Because of this wanderlust, temples of the Wandering God are small and
located in wild areas away from civilization.  Few are staffed but all offer
hospitality for they are kept well stocked with food, water, and fuel for those
who require them.  It is not unusual to find clerics of Dormicc traveling with
those of Arondos.
~

#1032
-1 HOIWINAS~
Alignment:  Chaotic Neutral
Colors:     Purple and silver
Symbol(s):  Wine jug (amphora), cluster of grapes, drinking vessel
Raiment:    Purple robes with a vine circlet
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the Three Lamps, Autumnal Equinox
Sacrifice:  Wine, vessels of precious metals and gems
Animal:     Crow
Avatar:     A cheery plump satyr wearing a crown of grapes and vines, bearing
            an amphora

  Hoiwinas is the eldest son of Sahaeyeh and Madshem and is the patron of the
wild passions of men, embodied in wine and lust.  He is ever active among men
and a jealous god; those that slight him suffer the effects of wine madness.
Thus, those wise enough to keep him in good humor pour a little wine for the
god.

  Houses of worship to Hoiwinas are found mainly in cities but small shrines
dot the countryside where grapes grow and wine is made.  These sites are the
scenes of frenzied worship during the Nights of the Three Lamps, gluttonous
eating, drinking and coupling being the center of the rites.  There is great
enmity between the followers of Rasazra and Hoiwinas.

  The priests of Hoiwinas tend to be plump and overindulgent from dutiful
worshipping. 
~

#1033
-1 IMAJU~
Imaju  (EE-muh-joo)  Goddess of Jealousy, Lies, Deception; Reptiles 

Alignment:  Chaotic Evil
Colors:     Green and white
Symbol(s):  Adders head with forked tongue prominent
Raiment:    Kilt of green and white cloth, bare chests and shaved heads
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Varies
Sacrifice:  Persons or items of great beauty
Animal:     Snake
Avatar:     An enormous serpent with a beautiful womans head

  Imaju is ruler of lies and falsehood and spreads discord in the world of
men.  Despite being the daughter of Ixtaros and Veshalma, her preferred methods
are subtle and indirect and she is the patron of all those who require such for
success.  There is great animosity between the followers of Markul and the Lady
of Lies.

  Like many of the other Lesser Gods, there are few days specifically set aside
for worship; instead worship tends to occur when needed or desired.  The focal
point for all worship is a huge serpent or snake-like being
(nagas, yuan ti, et al.) and human sacrifices, when offered, always consist of
the offerings being consumed by this creature.

  Clerics of Imaju are consummate liars and deceivers and are quite adroit at
trickery and deception, both mundane and magical.  
~

#1034
-1 JOLMA~
Jolma  (JOHL-muh)  Goddess of Pain, Suffering, Torture

Alignment:  Lawful Evil
Colors:     Gray and purple
Symbol(s):  Coiled whip
Raiment:    Robes
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the One Lamp
Sacrifice:  Humans, self-mortification
Animal:     None
Avatar:     A beautiful young woman with translucent skin dressed in flowing
            garments

  Jolma is one of the Lords of Strife and the wife of Bracc.  She delights in 
the misery of humankind and is active in the affairs of mankind.  Jolma and
Bracc are especially active during the winter months, stalking the land and
taking grim delight in its hardships.

  There are few temples dedicated to this goddess as few choose to honor such
a deity.  However, small shrines to her abound in evil lands and near those who
require her attention, mostly executions and torturers.
~

#1035
-1 MADSHEM~
Madshem (MAD-shem)  Goddess of Merriment, Friendship, Ale; Gnomes 

Alignment:  Neutral Good
Colors:     Yellow and purple
Symbol(s):  Two tankards touching
Raiment:    Garish clothing (motley)
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the Three Lamps, Night of Goodwill, Autumnal Equinox
Sacrifice:  Ale and beer, valuable items
Animal:     Otter
Avatar:     Short, matronly woman with a mirthful face

  Madshem is the daughter of Beronor and Amathe and thus counted as one of the
Gods of Weal, though she doesn't carry on that struggle as much as some of her
siblings do.  She is the wife of Sahaeyeh and the mother of Hoiwinas and Rhuma;
gnomes reckon her the mother of their race.

  Temples to this goddess can be found in many locations, including the fields,
for she often serves as a second goddess of the harvest.  On the evenings of
festivals her temples are full of merry-makers but they are much more sedate
than the followers of her son Hoiwinas.	Clerics of Madshem are expected to move
among people and extol the virtues of friendship and laughter.
~

#1036
-1 MOIWEN~
Moiwen  (MOY-wen)  Goddess of Spring, Peace

Alignment:  Lawful Good
Colors:     White and brown
Symbol(s):  Open hands palm in palm, laurel wreath
Raiment:    White robes and laurel wreath circlets
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Night of Sorrow, Spring Equinox
Sacrifice:  Weapons of war
Animal:     Dove
Avatar:     Young girl in white robes with a pair of doves sitting on her 
            shoulders

  Moiwen is the youngest child of the Gods of Weal.  She oversees the coming of
spring and the peace it brings.  She is gentle and calm and constantly advises
her siblings to turn from violence in the course of their struggles with the
Lords of Strife.  

  Temples to Moiwen are prevalent in many areas and are inviolate, offering
shelter and clemency to all.  Secular authorities violate the sanctuaries of
Moiwen at great risk.  As a result her temples are usually crowded with the
needy and dispossessed.	Clerics of Moiwen are expected to be pacifists and not
to fight except in dire need and then only to subdue, never kill, even at the
expense of ones own life.
~

#1037
-1 RASAZRA~
Rasazra  (ruh-ZAHZ-ruh)  Goddess of Purity, Virtue, Sacrifice

Alignment:  Lawful Good
Colors:     White and silver
Symbol(s):  Lock
Raiment:    Silver trimmed white robes, loose hair
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Night of Sorrow, Full Moon (Maete)
Sacrifice:  Items of great personal value, chastity, fasting
Animal:     Unicorn
Avatar:     A beautiful young maiden, clad in a white diaphanous robe with 
            flowing blond hair with a unicorn

  Rasazra, daughter of Amathe and Beronor, is the goddess of spiritual strength
and purity.  She and her brother Tiradel are also the gods responsible for
knighthood among men; indeed knights are often considered the children of these
two gods, for they have no other offspring.  As a lesser deity, her primary
concern is the world of men and their spiritual strength.

  Temples to Rasazra are uncommon as she is primarily worshipped individually.
However many orders of knighthood hold her as their patron deity, especially
those that number paladins among their number.  A common vow for those who hold
this deity as their patron is `!celibacy`` and this is a requirement among her
clerics.  She is very strict about this requirement.  Those that would follow
her are severely punished for breaking this sacred doctrine.
~

#1038
-1 RHUMA~
Rhuma  (RHOO-muh)  God of Wealth, Trade, Merchants 

Alignment:  Neutral
Colors:     Gold and gray
Symbol(s):  Gold wagon wheel or coin
Raiment:    Vestments richly embroidered in gold
Temple:     Wheel-like structure with spire in center
Holy Day(s):Nights of the Three Lamps, Autumnal Equinox
Sacrifice:  Wealth
Animal:     Mule
Avatar:     A middle-aged fat man dressed in golden garments

  Rhuma is the younger child of Sahaeyeh and Madshem and brother to Hoiwinas.
Like his father, Rhuma is concerned with the material aspects of life,
especially wealth and is a favored god within mercantile cities.  Although
Rhuma is true neutral, his clerics may be of any neutral alignment this is the
only deity where this is possible.

  The worship of Rhuma is centered in his temples, which resemble great wagon
wheels.  The inner hub is the sanctuary and is topped with a great golden
spire.  A market is usually built in front of his temples, allowing the god to
see all that transpires.  Clerics of Rhuma are consummate traders and hagglers.  
~

#1039
-1 SYITHE~
Syithe (SIGH-thay)  Goddess of Night, Shadows, Secrets 

Alignment:  Neutral Evil
Colors:     Black and purple
Symbol(s):  An eye open or closed
Raiment:    Completely hooded robe, either black or purple (high priests)
Temple:     Hidden underground hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the One Lamp, Winter Solstice
Sacrifice:  Wealth
Animal:     Bat
Avatar:     A cloaked female with an empty cowl

  Syithe is the one of the daughters of Ixtaros and Veshalma and a Lord of
Strife, though she is not as active in her plotting as some of her kindred.
She is a shadowy figure, preferring like her sister Imaju to work her will in
subtle ways.  She, in order to give birth to her son Dabula, seduced Sahaeyeh
on the eve of his marriage to Madshem.

  Temples of Syithe are always well hidden and only the most faithful are
allowed into the inner sanctums.  Worshippers and clergy alike are always
completely robed and hidden underneath hoods; layman wear gray while lesser
clerics don deep purple -- black is reserved for the high priests.
~

#1040
-1 TIRADEL~
Tiradel (TEER-uh-dell)  God of Honor, Chivalry, Knighthood 

Alignment:  Lawful Good
Colors:     Blue and gold
Symbol(s):  Sword, fitchy cross (crossletted)
Raiment:    Chainmail and warhelm, sword
Temple:     Cross-shaped hall
Holy Day(s):Festival of Lights
Sacrifice:  Battle spoils, valuables
Animal:     Griffon
Avatar:     Young man clad in chainmail and warhelm, wielding a sword

  Where Ixtaros represents all the atrocities and horrors of war, Tiradel
embodies all its nobility and honor.  He is the patron of all knights, along
with his sister Rasazra, and few are the orders that do not honor these gods.
Tiradel is active among his followers, guiding them on quests and holy
missions, often against his uncle Morgorin.

  The sword is the holy symbol of Tiradel and all of his places of worship are
constructed to resemble one.  There are no particular days that are holy to
Tiradel; as his sphere is warfare and honor he is usually invoked before
appropriate occasions.
~

#1041
-1 ULWARZI~
Ulwarzi  (ull-WORE-zee)  God of Plots, Treachery, Assassination

Alignment:  Lawful Evil
Colors:     Red and gray
Symbol(s):  Crossed scroll and knife
Raiment:    Full cloaks of gray, red for high priests
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):Nights of the One Lamp
Sacrifice:  Humans
Animal:     Spider
Avatar:     A huge bloated spider with the head of a man

  Ulwarzi is one of the Lords of Strife and the son of Ixtaros and Veshalma.
Like most of his siblings, he is indirect and subtle yet always inflicting
misery upon mankind.  He is very close to his sister Imaju and they make many
of their schemes together.

  Temples of Ulwarzi are usually found in cities, for it is there his sphere is
greatest.  They can be of any shape or style but all will have several huge
spiders in the place to serve as guardians and to accept the sacrifices to the
god.
~

#1042
-1 ZARKIROND~
Zarkirond  (ZAHR-keer-rond)  God of Greed, Avarice, Thieves

Alignment:  Neutral Evil
Colors:     Black and gold
Symbol(s):  Gloved hand pinching a gold coin
Raiment:    Black robes
Temple:     Hall
Holy Day(s):New moons (all)
Sacrifice:  Wealth
Animal:     Cat
Avatar:     Cat-headed man in full body cloak

  One of the Lords of Strife, Zarkirond is the son of Ixtaros and Veshalma.
Dedicated to thieving and ill-gotten gains, Zarkirond is one of the least
inimical siblings of the Lords as much of his efforts goes towards the
acquiring of wealth.

  Zarkironds temples are almost always found in cities for it is thieves that
make up the bulk of his worshippers.  Lavishly decorated to the point of
gaudiness, these sanctuaries are well hidden and admit only the faithful.  It
is common for thieves guilds to house temples to Zarkirond and vice versa.

  Those priests who follow Zarkirond are expected to dedicate themselves to
acquiring wealth for themselves and their god.
~

#1043
-1 HUNGRY HUNGER EAT EATING THIRST THIRSTY~
After a certain level, the need to eat and drink are going to affect your
character.  You will need to secure food either from killing creatures and
gaining edible food from them or purchasing food in stores.  The same holds
true for drinking.

Some foods and liquid types are more nutritious than others and some are not
very good ideas to eat or drink.  Mostly though if you get food from a store
or body part it is edible enough to provide some sustenance.

You will notice that if you do not eat or drink your character will experience
hunger and thirst pains.  They get worse the longer you go without.  Keep a
good supply of food and drink on your character to avoid this.

Some liquids can cause drunkenness.  Which will adversely affect your ability
to hit and defend.  Be careful when drinking ales, wines and other alcoholic
beverages.  They will affect you.
~

#1044
-1 'SMELT'~
SMELT
Syntax: smelt <ore>

Prior to manufacturing weapons or armor, a Blacksmith will need to
obtain ores from miners. Using these ores, the Blacksmith can smelt
the ore into heavy ingots of the same quality and material as the
ore, which they can later use to craft into weapons and armor.

SEE ALSO: Combine, Extract
~

#1045
-1 'COMBINE'~
COMBINE
Syntax: combine <ore/ingot> <2.ore/2.ingot>

Miners and blacksmiths are known to hold various scraps of metal or
ore for use. In order for them to be properly processed and to aid
in ease of carrying, they can combine these ores and ingots with 
each other. It should be noted that only ores and ingots of the
same material and quality can be combined with each other.

SEE ALSO: Extract
~

#1046
-1 'EXTRACT'~
EXTRACT
Syntax: extract <item> <amount in cubits>

Miners and blacksmiths use the ability to extract bits of ore or
ingot from larger bulk quantities to sell or to use in their craft.

SEE ALSO: Combine
~

#1047
-1 'MINE'~
MINE
Syntax: mine

The most important skill to a miner is their ability to extract metal
ores and gems from the earth. They do so by mining. Certain regions
carry different types of resources, and the amount of material that
miners pull from the ground is based not only on their skill, but on
the wealth of the deposit from which they are mining. Miners can only
mine using an axe.

SEE ALSO: Sense vein, Gemlore
~

#1048
-1 'SENSE VEIN'~
SENSE VEIN
Syntax: sense

Miners, being prolific geologists, have the ability to determine by
the color of soil and feel of deposits whether or not the earth will
contain mineral or gem deposits. They are also noted to be able to
ascertain the amount of the lode, if any, in the ground.

SEE ALSO: Gemlore, Mine
~

#1049
-1 'GEMLORE'~
GEMLORE
Syntax: gemlore <ore/gem>

Miners are highly knowledgeable in the field of gems and ores. Hence,
they have the ability to determine, to a reasonable degree, the very
quality of that which they have mined. This is very useful when it
comes to bartering for price with a smith or jeweler.

SEE ALSO: Mine, Sense Vein
~

#1050
-1 'CAVALIER' CAVALIERS~
CAVALIERS

Cavaliers are the perfect combination of chivalry and combat-savvy. They 
focus completely on their prowess in battle, and therefore lack the 
prayers and magic abilities that the more pious Paladins possess. Always 
of the nobility, these humans and half-elves are the most skillful horsemen 
in the lands and hold the virtues of goodness and chivalry above all else.
~

#1051
-1 'SHIELD BASH' SHIELDBASH~
SHIELD BASH
Syntax: shieldbash <target>

In the heat of battle, Cavaliers often apply their wits and use their defenses
offensively. With their shields, Cavaliers have been known to rush at the 
enemy and slam into him with his shield. If the bash is on target, the 
opponent will be stunned momentarily, giving the Cavalier the upper hand.
~

#1052
-1 'LANCE'~
LANCE
Syntax: automatic

Used solely by the Cavalier, the lance is a long pole-like weapon, most 
closely related to the spear. Because of the lances immense size and 
length, it may only be wielded while upon horseback. It has been known to 
have a powerful effect on a mounted charge.
~

#1053
-1 'MOUNTED CHARGE' MOUNTED~
MOUNTED CHARGE
Syntax: mcharge <target>

Being the great horsemen of Mirlan, Cavaliers can use their equestrian 
allies to their great advantage. While mounted, Cavaliers are able to 
charge at their foe, causing a great amount of damage. If a Cavalier 
wields a lance during this charge, the damage is even greater.
~

#1054
-1 'MELEE'~
MELEE
Syntax: melee

Cavaliers often find themselves in situations where more than one 
assailant will attack them simultaneously. To deal with these conditions, 
Cavaliers have learned the technique of melee. Cavaliers use their agility 
to swing their weapon at all attackers at once, damaging each 
individually.
~

#1055
-1 'DOLOROUS STRIKE' DOLOROUS~
DOLOROUS STRIKE
Syntax: dolorous <target>

Due to their skill in battle, Cavaliers invented a particular style in 
which to strike their opponent. This strike, known as the dolorous strike, 
can seriously wound (and sometimes instantly kill) the enemy. However, 
because of the Cavaliers magnanimity, this strike may only be executed 
during the very first few rounds of battle.
~

#1056
-1 'WEAPON BLOCK'~
WEAPON BLOCK
Syntax: automatic

So skilled are Cavaliers with their weapons, that they have learned to 
block attacks by holding them up in certain positions against the 
opponents swings, halting the blows completely.
~

#1057
-1 'POWERGRIP'~
POWERGRIP
Syntax: powergrip

With their innate strength with weapons, Cavaliers have been known grip 
their weapons with even more power than others, making it very difficult 
to disarm.
~

#1058
-1 'BRAVERY'~
BRAVERY
Syntax: automatic

One of the most audacious of the guilds, Cavaliers, as a rule, refuse to 
ever give up a fight. Thus, they do not flee in battle. However, if they 
get to the point in which it is clear that they have been defeated, the 
Cavalier will then be able to flee for the next few hours, having been 
bested, the Cavalier will feel a surge in health momentarily.
~

#1059
-1 'COMBAT HORSEMANSHIP'~
COMBAT HORSEMANSHIP
Syntax: automatic

Among all of the guilds of Mirlan, the Cavaliers are the most accomplished
horsemen of all. When using their knowledge to the best advantage, Cavaliers
gain extra prowess in battle on horseback, and are given the abilities to
ride and handle the most powerful of warhorses.

SEE ALSO: Advanced horsemanship, Basic Horsemanship
~

#1060
-1 ALCHEMIST~
ALCHEMIST

Need a wand, staff, potion or scroll?  These are your go to guys.  Alchemist
are the creators of these items.  Only they have learned the secret arts of
doing so and they guard this information dearly.  It is their bread and butter
so to speak.

Using their knowledge gleaned from ancient scrolls and tomes they have perfected
their art.  

To be a Alchemist, you need to posess a high intellect and a wisdom that borders
on the edge of oracle.  For with these two characteristics, Alchemist, have made
their calling into an art form.  

This is an NPK class.  Non-PK, see help NPK or NONPK for details.
~

#1061
-1 BLACKSMITH~
BLACKSMITH

Blacksmiths are your forgers of weapons and other items of metal.
They are the creators of razor sharp swords and impenetrable armors. 
Over the hot fires and ringing anvils these master metal workers
create things of beauty and necessity from lumps of raw metal.

Blacksmiths are one of the most sought out classes for the creation of
specialized items such as The Armor of Invulnerability.  An item only
rumored to exist which was created by an ancient Thane of the Dwarven
people around the time of the first Fey-dwarves.  

To be a blacksmith you need to have exceptional strength and a good
constitution as both of these are required for the stamina to work the
forges.

Blacksmith is a NONPK NON-PK class.  See NON-PK or NPK for details.
~

#1062
-1 TAILOR~
TAILOR
 
The tailor is an all in one clothier with the ability to create leather
products as well.  The leather products are much sought after for their
durability and weight.  If it can be made of leather a tailor is the person
to see.
While not sounding very glamorous of a profession, one will be amazed at the
possibilities of the tailor class.  Creating leather armors, sheaths, clothing
of grand design, royal insignias and so much more.  Many classes will not be
able to function to their fullest potential without the help of the tailors.
Hides can be sold to tailors an in turn they can produce some of the finest
cloaks and other wearable items that simply cannot be made out of metal for
functionality.  Try wearing metal boots and being quite in the woods.
And yes, tailors can at higher levels imbue their crafts with magic.
Tailors are an NON-PK class.  See NPK or NON-PK for details.
~

#1063
-1 SAINT SAINTS~
[ `^SAINT`` ] - The Divinity of Saints
 
The Divinity of Saint is a Holy Order devoted not just to one
path, deity, or religion, but rather whole gamut of Gods present
within the pantheon. Quite possibly one of the largest, and most
general of all of the cabals, The Divinity of Saints is comprised
of nine separate clans, each one devoted to the religious texts
of one specific God as detailed below.

The Order of Tiradel  - Lawful Good     - See HELP TIRADEL
The Order of Markul   - Lawful Neutral  - See HELP MARKUL
The Order of Jolma    - Lawful Evil     - See HELP JOLMA
The Order of Amathe   - Neutral Good    - See HELP AMATHE
The Order of Gaemina  - True Neutral    - See HELP GAEMINA
The Order of Morgorin - Neutral Evil    - See HELP MORGORIN
The Order of Dormicc  - Chaotic Good    - See HELP DORMICC
The Order of Pajumet  - Chaotic Neutral - See HELP PAJUMET
The Order of Ixtaros  - Chaotic Evil    - See HELP IXTAROS

The Saints are devoted fully to their clans, having powers given
unto them by the Divine Ones, they have remarkable abilities of
faith healing, conversion, and restoration, and are notorious for
their "fire and brimstone" evangelism.
 
All classes, all races, all alignments may join the Muses, but must
serve one of the above listed Gods.
If you are interested in applying to Divinity of Saints, submit
your application to SAINT.
 
~

#1064
-1 MUSE MUSES~
[ `2MUSE`` ] - The Studio of Muses

The Studio of Muses is a way of life devoted to more artistic
pursuits. This consortium of artists, poets, scholars, sculptors,
actors, historians, and entertainers thrives on knowledge, joy,
and entertainment. They are the scribes of the land, penning
words of wisdom into the Tomes of the Mirlan Library. They are
oft seen in taverns and market squares collecting knowledge,
entertaining, or listening in to local gossip. More often, they
are subjects of the Royal courts, requested by Kings and Queens
alike for their wit, elocution, and, often, humor.

The Studio of Muses is comprised of two separate clans:

The Guild of Artists - Sculptors, writers, historians
The Guild of Actors  - Jesters, actors, gleemen

The Muses are a gentle sort, giving up their possible former
warlike tendencies for a life of peace and harmony. They are
free of nearly all sort of persecution, enjoying freedom as well
as protection inside their walls.

All classes, all races, all alignments may join the Muses.

If you are interested in applying to Studio of Muses, submit
your application to MUSE.

~

#1065
-1 EMPIRE SHADOW~
[ `8EMPIRE`` ] - The Empire of the Shadow

A force of dominance lies within the lands, and it is known only by
the name of The Empire. It is a faction composed of dark powers and forces
that serves but one will; domination through power. They are elite, highly
organized, efficiant, and cold. They serve the will of the Emperor, and
are only divided into two clans to help further streamline their methods.

The Empire of the Shadow is comprised of two separate clans:

The Inquisition          - Tacticians, scholars, and plotters
The Wrath of the Emperor - Footsoldiers, combatants, and mercenaries

The Empire, though often perceived as pure evil, has a method to their
madness, so to speak. Devoted to the ideals that man is weak without
ones to lead, the Empire strives to unite the lands under one common
banner, so as to provide an absolutist society to all mankind. Because
of their strict adherence to non-societal "good" beliefs, only those
who serve the path of evil may join.

If you are interested in applying to the Empire of the Shadow, submit your 
application to EMPIRE.

~

#1066
-1 SAGE SAGES MAGI~
[ '$SAGE`` ] - The Path of the Magi

Founded eons ago on the Isle of Megius, the Path of the Magi holds inside
its walls the most powerful magic users and clerics in the land. They are
those who serve the true ideal of magic and knowledge, combined under one
roof that has, over the centuries, housed the greatest and most sought
after Magi in the lands.

The Path of the Magi is comprised of two separate clans:

The Academy of Scholars - Scholars, wisemen, and teachers
The Arcane Consortium   - Battlefield mages and mages of destruction

The Path is often divided in mentality between outright naked aggression
towards those who defy magic, and pacifism and the pursuit of knowledge.
However, because magic is their protector, these Sages ignore alignment
and ethos in return for devotion to the cause.

If you are interested in applying to the Path of the Magi, submit your 
application to SAGE.

~

#1067
-1 BATTLE WARLORD WARMASTER TITAN~
[ `3BATTLE ``] - The Order of the Titans

By Titans the are called, and by Titans they behave. The Order of the
Titans is an organization of the most fearsome combatants in the land.
They are swordsmen, warlord, warriors, fighters and knights. They are
those who require no magic to assist them in their endeavors to become
the most powerful force in the land. A wide array of people reside within
the Order; Retired battlefield generals, young knights trying to make a
name, bar brawlers, and street fighters alike. They have honed their skill
and abilities in such a way that they perhaps the most formidable band
of combatants the land has seen. Oh, and they loathe magic...

The Order of the Titans is comprised of two separate clans:

The Savages  - Berserkers and unorthodox fighters call this clan home.
The Generals - Tacticians and precision fighters enjoy this clan.

Because of their nature, no practitioner of magic may call the Order
home. This leaves only those of the Warrior, Paladin, Cavalier, Berserker,
Paladin, or Thief guilds as participants. Alignment and ethos are
seldom important.

If you are interested in applying to the Order, submit your 
application to BATTLE.

~

#1068
-1 CARTEL OUTFIT~
[ `@CARTEL`` ] - The Outfit

Devious and clever, wily and cunning. These traits exemplify all that
the cabal of Cartel stands for. Greed serves them, and they serve
greed. Little else in life is important. The mission of Cartel is to
gain power through theft, fear, or intimidation; whichever gets you
there faster. While not entirely honorless (they maintain a sort of
aberrant alignment between themselves and their cabalmates), they are
far more inclined to subterfuge and subtle techniques. On rare instances
they have been known to fight face to face, but it's not particularly
their "style".

The Outfit is comprised of two separate clans:

The House of Cloaks  - Thieves are right at home here.
The House of Daggers - Murderers and brigands fancy this clan.

Cartel members are usually scalywags, though seldom dumb. The are the
cream of the crop as far as scoundrels are concerned, and can elevate
their lot in life as much as they wish to steal and pillage.

Because of the diabolic nature of the Outfit, only those who are
chaotic or neutral may join, and certainly not any lightwalkers.

If you are interested in applying to the Outfit, submit your 
application to CARTEL.

~

#1069
-1 TEMPLAR KNIGHT CRUSADER~
[ `#TEMPLAR`` ] - The Templars of the Realm

The embodiment of all that is good and just in the world of Mirlan,
the Templars are the sword of truth, they eyes of Good. They advocate
the path of the light, often with sword so stalwartly, that are seldom
swayed. Their conviction is so defined and strong, that even the most
powerful of evils are often shed off by the Templars. It is their will
and mission to cleanse the lands of the taints of the Evil Gods, and
keep harmony, peace, and happiness prevalent in Mirlan.

The Templars of the Realm are comprised of three separate clans:

Order of the Golden Griffons  
Royal Order of Esterian Knights
The Knights of the Sword and Cross

Knights are consummate fighters, who tend to be clever witted with
keen senses, especially in the heat of combat. They are expect to fight
strongly for their beliefs, and back down from no foe. They are expected
to fight with honor and courage in all situations. and to defend the
name and rights of their clans to the death, if required.

Because of the nature of this cabal, you must serve only the Gods of
Good, and be one of the Cavalier, Paladin, Ranger, Healer, Cleric, or
Crusader guilds.

If you are interested in applying to the Templars of the Realm, submit
your application to TEMPLAR.

~

#1070
-1 LAW PILLAR JUSTICE ORDER~
[ `&LAW`` ] - The Pillar of Law

The cabal of Law is perhaps the most visible, revered, and hated
cabal in Mirlan. They are the servants of the society, the judges,
jury, and executioners of those who would walk a path that would be
contrary to public good. They are devoted and stalwart servants,
and have a keen and sharp understanding of the laws of the nations,
as well as a thick skin to battle off naysayers.

The Pillar of Law is comprised of two separate clans:

The Enforcers   - These lawmen chase fugitives, and sentence
The Magistrates - These lawmen are protectors of the homeland

The Pillar of Law is a highly sought after cabal, one that requires
cunning, speed, diligence, and intellect. As such, only those who
are law abiding citizens, and not natively forest denizens may
apply to the Law cabal.

If you are interested in applying to the Pillar of Law, submit
your application to LAW.

~

#1071
50 rip~
This IMM command allows an Imm to kill someone in a more artistic
fashion.  The syntax: rip <victim> 
~

#1072
-1 LANGUAGE LANGUAGES TRADE COMMON~
Trade Common is what everyone is capable of speaking but certain races like
Orc and Ogre have their own distinctive tongues.  If you have not learned
their particular language you will not be able to understand the speech of
an Orc or Ogre and it will come out garbled.  To speak in a dialect that you
have learned use the 
SPEAK ORC     = to speak orcish
SPEAK OGRE  = to speak in orge.
To see the list of languages that you can speak type in:
LANG.  
~

#1073
-1 GOOD~
*** Good Aligned ***

Lawful:
An ideal life would only be possible in an orderly society that is 
governed by a strong government with a clear conscience.  In order to 
live life to its fullest extent, laws must be created and followed by 
the people of the society.  In addition, people must be willing to help 
one another in their times of need.  Only when these two criteria are 
met will the society succeed and flourish as a whole.

Neutral:
Although a balance of the forces of order and chaos is important, 
nothing supercedes the need for good.  To ensure goodness in the world 
does not affect nor will it unbalance the forces of order and chaos, for 
there are creatures of good existing in both forces.  To ensure goodness 
in the world can mean strengthen a society that needs order or to tear 
down a society that is ruled by tyranny, depending on the situation.  
The amount of structure in a society has no innate value to the position 
of goodness.  Goodness above all shall be preserved.

Chaotic
Goodness is put above all, while laws and order are of little use or 
relevance.  Those that follow this path tend to have strong and 
individualistic characteristics mixed with generosity and kindness.  
Although their actions may not agree with the ways of society, 
nevertheless it is morally good and with well intentions.
~

#1074
-1 NEUTRAL~
*** Neutral Aligned ***

Lawful:
A society governed by strict rules, which promotes order of the utmost 
importance while the morality that the government holds is disregarded.  
An well-organized society would benefit all of its inhabitants and is 
more important than any moral issues that the means of its 
implementation may raise.

True Neutral:
A balance of all forces in existence must be achieved.  Those that truly 
follow this path is the hardest to find in Thera for almost everyone has 
their own biases, no matter great or small.  It is hard to be allies 
with this group for they tend to switch from side to side, often 
switching to the side of the weak in order to balance out the tides, 
bring his original allies towards destruction.

Chaotic
Order does not exist for chaos, chance, and fate rule the world.  
Nothing governs the actions of these individuals.  Morality of an action 
is obviously out of the question.  There is no order to what they do 
other than knowing that they are not bound by any sort of order at all.  
They are just as likely to befriend another as to attack another, and 
even that differs from one moment to another.  These individuals are the 
true coin-flippers, who lets chance and fate guide their path.
~

#1075
-1 EVIL~
*** Evil Aligned ***

Lawful:
Society and the order established in it are to be used for one's own 
benefit.  The established order boosts those who are deserving while 
stomps down on the worthless, thus clearly defining the masters and the 
slaves.  It is within this mechanism that an individual seeks to benefit 
oneself.  Laws are obeyed out of punishment, not due to an ideological 
agreement.

Neutral:
One must always look out for the good ol' "Number One".  Whether alone 
or with others, these are the people whose primary and only interest is 
how they may benefit from each situation.  The structure of the society 
they exist in is of little relevance.  They may quietly obey the law or 
wreck havoc, depending on which situation will provide them with the 
most gains. 

Chaotic
Goodness and order have no value while everything is reduced to the 
power one has.  An orderly society is only for those who are weak who 
needs to hide behind a shield of order.  Those who are strong have the 
right to do as they please.  The weak are there to be used anyway wished 
by those who are strong.  The only authority that prevail among this 
group is through power, from a leader who is capable of intimidate those 
who follow him.
~

#1076
51 MATERIAL MATERIALS~
MATERIALS
acid               adamantite         air                ash
balm               bamboo             bone               brass
bronze             canvas             cardboard          clay
cloth              coal               copper             coral
cork               cream              crystal            diamond
earth              ebony              electrum           enamel
energy             feathers           felt               fire
flint              fur                glass              gold
granite            hemp               ice                iron
ivory              jelly              lace               lead
leather            linen              marble             metal
mithril            oil                paper              parchment
pewter             plastic            platinum           porcelain
quartz             rubber             sandstone          satin
shell              silk               silver             slime
snakeskin          sponge             steel              stone
tin                vellum             velvet             water
wax                webbing            wire               wood
wool               food               gem                none
~

#1077
51 LIQUIDS LIQUID~
LIST OF LIQUID TYPES
Name                   Color          Proof Full Thirst Food Ssize
water                  clear              0    1     10    0    16
beer                   amber             12    1      8    1    12
red wine               burgundy          30    1      8    1     5
ale                    brown             15    1      8    1    12
dark ale               dark              16    1      8    1    12
whisky                 golden           120    1      5    0     2
lemonade               pink               0    1      9    2    12
firebreather           boiling          190    0      4    0     2
local specialty        clear            151    1      3    0     2
slime mold juice       green              0    2     -8    1     2
milk                   white              0    2      9    3    12
tea                    tan                0    1      8    0     6
coffee                 black              0    1      8    0     6
blood                  red                0    2      2    2     6
salt water             clear              0    1     -2    0     1
coke                   brown              0    2      9    2    12
root beer              brown              0    2      9    2    12
chocolate milk         dark              35    2      8    1     5
white wine             golden            28    1      8    1     5
champagne              golden            32    1      8    1     5
iced tea               dark              34    2      8    2    12
rose wine              pink              26    1      8    1     5
benedictine wine       burgundy          40    1      8    1     5
vodka                  clear            130    1      5    0     2
Boon's Strawberry Hill pink               0    1      9    2    12
orange juice           orange             0    2      9    3    12
absinthe               green            200    1      4    0     2
brandy                 golden            80    1      5    0     4
aquavit                clear            140    1      5    0     2
schnapps               clear             90    1      5    0     2
icewine                purple            50    2      6    1     5
amontillado            burgundy          35    2      8    1     5
sherry                 red               38    2      7    1     5
framboise              red               50    1      7    1     5
rum                    amber            151    1      4    0     2
cordial                clear            100    1      5    0     2
mead                   honey-brown       10    1      5    5     5
anti-matter            pitch black        0   -2      6    6     4

~

#1078
-51 RACE RACENUMBERS RACENUMB RACEN RACE-N~
RACE RACENUMBERS RACENUMB RACEN RACE-N
  
   Below are the race and their cooresponding numbers for mobprograms.
   Do not use 18 (Temp).  This is for the mobprog if israce($n) == 12
   command.

   Human number 	 1.	Troll number 		17.
   Elf number 		 2.	Feral number 		18.
   Drow number 		 3.	Lycanthrope number 	19. 
   Dwarf number 	 4.	Lycan-tiger number 	20.
   Duegar number 	 5.	Lycan-wolf number 	21.
   Halfling number 	 6.	Lycan-boar number 	22.
   Gnome number 	 7.	Lycan-ocelot number 	23.
   Avian number 	 8.	Lycan-fox number 	24.
   Fire-Giant number 	 9.	Lycan-falcon number 	25.
   Hill-Giant number 	10.	Half-Elf number 	26.
   Cloud-Giant number 	11.	Faerie number 		27.
   Undead number 	12.	Demon number 		28.
   Illithid number 	13.	Ogre number 		29.
   Minoatur number 	14.	Vampire number 		30.
   Ethro number 	15.	Lich number 		31.
   Lizardman number 	16.	Revnant number 		32.
   				Ghost number 		33.
~

#1079
-51 CLASS CLASS-N CLASSN CLASSNUMBER CLASSNUMB CLASSNUMBERS~
CLASS CLASS-N CLASSN CLASSNUMBER CLASSNUMB CLASSNUMBERS

   For the is ifclass($) == (value) or similar commands here are the
   corresponding values.

   0  Warrior        	13  Healer
   1  Berserker         14  Shaman 
   2  Ranger      	15  Vampire
   3  Paladin        	16  Bard
   4  Dark-Knight     	17  Druid
   5  Thief       	18  Crusader
   6  Ninja *          	19  Cavalier
   7  Cleric         	20  Alchemist
   8  Monk *     	21  Tailor
   9  Thalmaturgist     22  Miner
  10  Sorcerer		To be installed later.
  11  Necromancer	Jeweler, Commoner, Noble, Merchant, Adventurer
  12  Psion

~

#1080
-51 BUILDER BUILDERS~
Greetings new Immortal
 
You have been hired to build. There are a few things we need to impart upon
you as a new builder/coder.
 
 
Any and all areas, mob, descriptions, built for The Age of Mirlan belong
explicitly to the owner of the same.
 
The Age of Mirlan is built off of the copy written work of Jim Lawson and
is used with his explicit permission.
 
 
All names of areas, geography, and Mirlan related information that comes
directly from Jim Lawson's Glossography. The Glossography is property of
Jim Lawson.  It cannot be used without his written permission.  
 
 
All information, intellectual creations done while an Immortal for
"The Age of Mirlan" shall remain a part of without transfer without explicit
permission of the owner of the same.
 
 
If you are an Immortal already given status as a builder or coder for 
"The Age of Mirlan" you hereby agree to the above or you will let us know in
three business days of posting this disclaimer made and integrated on
July 27, 2004.
~

#1081
-1 LUVAMAP MAPOFLUVA~
The City of Luva                   ^
                                   |
                                   |
                                 North
                =
                =
                =       G G  
    G     G     =     G G G
    G     G   = = =   G
G G + = + + = = = = = + = = = 
        G     = = =   G     =
        G       =     G     =
            G G = G G       = = = 
        G G +   =   + G G 
            =   =   =
            = = = = =
       G G      =       G G 
        +   S S + B B   +
    G G +       =       + G G
        =       + B B   =
      G + + = = = = = + + G
      G   G     + B B G   G  
          G     + B B G
        T     = = =   T
      T T + = = = = + T T 
        T     = = =   T
        G       =     G G
        G       =     G G   T
        + = = = = = = + + + T T
        G G     =       G   T
        G G S S = S S   G
                =
                =
                =

S = Shop
T = Temple
G = Guild house
= = Street
+ = An entrance to a building
B = Building

~

#1082
-1 MALAGSCROSSINGMAP MAPMC MALGAGSMAP~
Map of Malag's Crossing               ^
                                      ^
                                      |
                                B     |
        = w w w w w w w w w w w B     |
  = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = +  North
      = = w w w w w w w w w + =
        = w                 H + B
                            H + B B
                        w w   + B
                        w D D = B B
                        w D = + B B
                        w D B = = =
                        w w B     = + = = = + =
                                    T       B =
                                T T T T     B =
                                              = 

w = water
B = Business/Building
T = Temple
D = Dock
= = road/path
+ = Entrance to building

~

#1083
-1 LUVANWOODMAP LVMAP~
^
Map of Luvan Wood                  |
                                   |
To Malag's Crossing                |
  =                              North
  =             = = = = =     = = = = = 
  =             =   =   =     =
  =             =   =   = = = = 
  = =   = = = = = = =     = 
    = = =                 =
  = =           = = = = = =       = =
  =             =   =               =
  = =       = = =   =         = = = =
    =           =   =       = =   =
  = = = = = = = = = = = = = =     = =
  =             =         =       =
= =             =         = = = = = 
                = 
                = =
                  =
                  =
                  =

        To the city of Luva
 
= Path

~

#1084
-1 'ENCHANT ARMOR'~
'ENCHANT ARMOR'
 
Syntax: cast 'enchant armor' (object)
 
The enchant armor spell imbues armor with powerful protective magic.  It is not
nearly as reliable as enchanting weapons, being far more prone to destructive 
effects.  Each successful enchant increases the protection from the armor, thus
deeming the item more powerful than before.
~

#0