16
Faces in Time~ 19
Academician  Ashalind Madderson~
Interview, with a Vampire~
As a Bardic Herald, I like my fellows, will leave no stone of Aabahran 
unturned in search of a good story. However, also like all good
adventurers, time just has to be spent seeking to better oneself.
Imagine my surprise one day therefore, when on grouping with someone 
to hunt, I found that the third person to join us was the vampire 
Akiava. I must here admit, that it was with a little trepidation the 
hunt was commenced, but soon, as in any other hunt a modicum of trust 
was evident.
At one stage on her daily sleep Akaiva asked me what I thought of the 
current political situation in the land. Hmm, now that was interesting. 
We had some conversation, and soon unable to stand it any longer I 
asked did she have a story she could tell me. Her reply was yes, she 
could tell me of the bloodied nurse. My curiosity was piqued but 
unfortunately the group was disbanded and for months I was left with 
insatiable curiosity.
The next meeting I was thinking would never occur, as search as I may 
never again did I see her.  Then, one uneventful evening whilst my 
companion and I were seeking a partner for a hunt, there she was, we 
asked, and she agreed.
Now was my chance, but once again trepidation had taken my tongue 
until... 'A vampire bat tells the group 'So Scholar, what news have 
you of the land?'
I asked Akiava what sort of news she would like to hear. She told me 
she was most curious in the ways of medicine. This gave me the chance
to ask her of the story of the Bloodied Nurse.
Akiava's Story.
Born into luxury by the standards of many, comfort to her.. Akiava's
early years were spent in the embrace of a loving family. Being of a 
solitary nature there was much time for her to devote to  her chosen 
pursuit, which was of medicine. Curiosity ever being a hard task 
master, nothing daunted Akiava's search into the mysteries of 
medicine. One day she was assisting in the examination of a recently 
deceased patient. As the very first cut was made into his body she 
was sprayed in the eyes with a gout of blood. It was the day and the 
moment that changed her forever. She was afflicted with the blood- 
incinerating disease we know as vampirism. Forever must she now seek 
blood to replace that which her body burns at a furious rate. 
She was distraught as any would be. In an effort to save her 
family the knowledge of her affliction, she burnt her house. Now 
forever would they think her dead, a state she cannot accomplish.
For years she has continued her studies but related them to studies of 
the human bloodstream. She sought to be healed, but came to hate 
all temple healers as she considers they knew nothing of her 
affliction. I and my companion asked her had she ever thought to ask 
one of the lands barrage of healers. However, she has in the 
intervening years come not only to accept her fate, but be at one with 
it. Sometimes she told me she cannot control the hunger that rages 
inside herself but on other occasions she can.  Anger consumes 
her when she grows ravenous. By this time the night was starting to 
draw in, and fearing that our companion was getting just a little 
hungry, once more we hunted.
Later we asked could she still be interested in seeking a way back to 
the world of the living but she told us 'No', then, 'I am no longer 
what I once was but have become ... something else. When hunger
overtakes me I am nothing but a monster, no thought, no conscience, 
no remorse, nothing. Only the desire to feed.'
My companion and I were by this time getting rather to like our 
vampire, so my companion bravely  asked, if ever Akiava killed someone
that had thought of her as friend, would she feel remorse afterwards?
Her answer was 'Can one such as I truly have friends?' 
'Wouldn't they run in terror?' 
To which I replied 'Have we?'
Akiava said "I wouldn't befriend a monster". 
Many more questions I had, and tried to squeeze one more in, but the 
final words we were to hear from the vampire that night were 
'I hunger'.
~

Historian Airen Mirelle~
History on Hero Luorath~
Born to alcoholic, poverty-stricken parents, Luorath was raised in the
alleys and slums of Old Miruvhor.  The combination of neglecting parents and
an abusive environment led to Luorath's hatred towards all of mankind.  In
addition, the constant presence of violence somewhat forced Luorath to
become proficient in combat and weaponry.  Because of this, he felt the
Warrior Guild to be the clearest choice when he turned 17.  Once Luorath had
gotten out into the world, he was awakened to the realization of the Divine.
His mounting loathing of mortal beings and the desire for their annihilation
only aided in his decision to follow the way of the Scourge.  Even when
there were none to kill, Luorath would resort to self mutilation in order to
satisfy his anger briefly.  His anger reached the Heavens, and Lord Rathe
came unto him to help in relieving Luorath of his mortality, and escorting
him into the world of Undeath.  The years passed and Luorath swiftly rose to
his pinnacle.  Upon doing so, he applied to the halls of Syndicate. 
However, he and the Rat King of the time, the vampire Arath, had a bit of a
dispute and Luorath's acceptance was not to be.  Thus, he applied himself as
Archfiend Zaewyn's personal assassin, and stayed as such until the Divine
called for a Hero and Heroine of each class to come forth.  Of the warriors,
only Luorath and Warlord Charim were considered.  Under the supervision of
Lords Virigoth and Mhalador, the two warriors were pitted against each other
in the Grand Arena of Rheydin.  The outcome was Warlord Charim over Luorath.
However, Lord Virigoth saw that both had fought with equal strength, and
Luorath was thusly dubbed Hero of the Warriors, while Charim became Hero of
the Warmasters.  The next major event for Luorath to be involved in was the
Madness and Fall of Lord Sirant.  
Name: Luorath (surname forgotten)
Race: Undead
Class: Warrior
Known as: the Hero of Warriors
Member of: the Academy- Elder
~

Historian Airen Mirelle~
Shaw Denetheros~
It was in the southwestern city of Ofcol where Shaw Denetheros, fourth
Arbiter of Justice, was born and raised.  Though both of his parents were
respectable people within the community, Shaw still considers himself to
have been "a country bumpkin" while growing up.  His father, Jakob
Denetheros, was deputy to the Marshall Diana and served the law well as a
stern but loving individual.  Shaw's mother, Sharla Denetheros, was the
city's midwife and well versed in the way of medicine.  It was her gentle
healing ways that persuaded Shaw to join the guild of the healers.  Upon
turning seventeen, Shaw left Ofcol and wandered the forests of Drkshtyre for
many weeks, eventually coming upon the city of Val Miran.  It was here that
he met an Elder of Justice by the name of Athorn.  He and the stone giant
became fast friends and it was mainly through his influence that Shaw
followed in his father's footsteps and became a lawman upon reaching his
pinnacle.  "If there is one thing I've learned is that we need the law" Some
years later, Lord Mhalador descended to Shaw, now the Arbiter, while he
patrolled the streets of Val Miran.  It was here that the Lord gathered
several passersby to reenact a battle scene.  During the course of the
reenactment, Lord Mhalador falsely accused Shaw of hiding children within
his watchtower.  The joke became widely known and Shaw was thereafter
nicknamed the "Evil Overlord of the Tower".  
 
Name: Shaw Denetheros
Race: Human
Class: Healer
Known as: the Evil Overlord of the Tower
Member of: Justice- Leader
~

Herald Zeyrsi~
History on Peikloz Troy~
Peikloz Troy, the first Dean of the Academy, Hero of Invokers and god 
among achievers. Ever since Peikloz was a child, knowledge was his 
passion. Being a scholar early in life, he was always in pursuit of answers 
to the questions who, what, where and why. Constant trips to the grand 
library of Rheydin made him a familiar face to the historians and librarians. 
On one of his visits, the Librarian noticed Peikloz reading about magic and 
approached him with interest.  He told him he knew of secret books that 
would be more informative, but only if he was insistent on being shown 
these books would he get to read them. Peikloz couldn't resist, and he was 
shown the spells and writings of many scholarly mages.  The one that 
interested him most was the guildhall teachings of the invoker. He began to 
study everything there was to know about the invoker. Even though his first 
attempt at the spell burning hands blew his finger off, he became 
fascinated.  Throughout time he became a master of his arts.  His 
knowledge expanded and he began to realize that most didn't learn at the 
rate he did.  It was soon after this that he tried for and became a teacher of 
the academy. With much long dedication to this, the god Rotarx, who was 
responsible for the Academy, became impressed and felt that Peikloz 
would make the perfect Dean. Peikloz Troy never ceased to amaze with 
his knowledge. Anything he did was with great strength and the gods knew 
it well.  They stated his academics, skills, tolerance and achievements had 
gone beyond most mortals. Peikloz flew past the boundaries to Heroism.  
And then further became Immortal.  
Name: Peikloz Troy
Race: Avian
Class: Invoker
Known as: Peikloz Troy the Sage of Thera, Headmaster of the Academy
Member of: the Academy- Dean
~

Herald Miartos Quiderzes~
Enlightenment~
Her mortal life is shrouded from all knowledge other than her own.  No
hints will she give her mortal followers other than she could best have been
described as an elven maiden.  Yes but I am here to give you more than this,
read further and you shall learn a few truths she has allowed me and you,
the lucky owners of this tome a chance to hear.  She was once a wondrous
elven maiden, of obvious noble birth.  She was given the best there was to
offer in life, but she never had what she truly wished.  Knowledge was her
passion, and in this she committed herself.  Tutors were hired to anwser her
neverending questions about life and its mysteries.  One day she came across
a question she could not answer, an enigma that no living being could ever
know the question to.  What separated an immortal from their lesser mortal
counterparts.  Hours she spent pondering the question with no anwser, no
real way of ever knowing the true diffrence.  Her tutors were soon sent
away, and all life around her stoped in her search.  Sleep would not come to
her on that fretful night, pacing slowly back and forth across her bedroom
floor.  The answer finally came to her.  She kneeled on an altar in her
bedroom; following no god she used it only to heighten her perception. 
Potential, this was the finishing piece to the puzzle, but how could she
achieve this.  Her mortal body could not handle the changes, the only true
solution was rebirth.  The next few steps in her process are unexplainable
to the likes of mortals, only the gods know, for it to happened to them.  
 
She is Thoclya, Harbringer of Dischord
Race: Duergar
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Isabeau Tranin Shrythara~
Isabeau Tranin Shrythara was born in Shazarazade but spent most of her
early years in Val Miran, where her parents were ambassadors to the 
royal court of that city.  Spending her formative years around humans 
naturally made an impression on her, and she came to relate to their 
culture better than to that of her own people.  Another major factor 
in her early life was her parents.  Their constant bickering weighed 
heavy on her.  While in Val Miran, it drove her out of their house and 
closer to the humans around her, and during the family's annual trip 
to Shasarazade to consult with the Duke she would often disappear into 
the Elven Valley for days on end to escape.  Though she believes her 
parents really loved each other, the turmoil of her childhood left her 
with a dread of conflict.
 
Her tender heart was evident even as a child, whether tending the
creatures of the forest or the cuts and scrapes of her playmates in
Val Miran.  It seemed only natural that she chose to follow the way 
of Compassion, and even to enter service as a healer.  Her travels 
across the land, giving aid to all who were in need, often brought her 
back to her adopted city of Val Miran.  It was there that she became 
friends with another healer, a member of the royal house named
Athelea.  At that time, the city of Val Miran was hard pressed by the
forces of the Nexus, and Isabeau watched as Athelea faced this threat; 
usually alone, for Athelea was often the only member of the house in 
the lands.  Out of compassion for her friend, and a desire to aid
where she was needed, Isabeau made the decision to seek admittance
into the royal house of Val Miran and stand with them in support of 
the light.
 
During her lifetime Isabeau has made many friends, but few were as
special to her as the Knight named Loucheran.  His courage and noble
nature won her heart, but his devotion to his duty prevented their 
relationship from growing beyond close friendship.  When Loucheran was 
slain by the evil Sirant, she took up his banner and stood to rally 
the forces of light to hold firm against the darkness.  After Sirant's 
fall, she continued to champion the cause by forming the Band of 
Light, dedicated to resisting the forces of evil and aiding those who 
wish to live in peace.  She had also met a young elven scholar named
Eldrigal Shrythara.  Eldrigal set out to heal the pain her feelings 
for Loucheran caused her, and turn her heart towards himself.  In time
he succeeded, and they were wed in a ceremony in the Central Square of 
Val Miran.  In due time they were gifted with their first child.
 
Name: Isabeau Tranin Shrythara
Race: Elf
Class: Healer
Member of:Val Miran-Elder
~

Herald Ashalind Madderson~
Faces in Time. Namaste.~
From the beginning his was a story waiting to happen. His mother a 
healer of a small village and his father a justice. 
One night the healer was called to her duty only to be set upon by a 
fearsome group as she sought to return to her home and family. She 
was sorely used and every member of the rogues knew her.  Nine months
later Namaste was born in pain and memories most dire, he was fated 
to unlove, as any child could be. His parents looked at him and knew 
shame, pain and embarrassment, his looks favored the humans that had
beset his avian mother and as such caused his family to despise him 
the more. To their shame they took these feelings out on their young 
son and used him most cruelly, beating him and treating him as no 
person should be treated.
This life culminated in Namaste's seeking of love outside his family.
He found it in a young village girl who treated him as he had 
never been treated before. She gave him what no other ever had, and 
they soon discovered they were to be parents. When Namaste's father 
was aware of this, he used his knowledge of the seamier side of life
to kill the girl and throw her body into a canyon.  He then attempted 
to do the same to his 'son'. However Namaste's life like his spirit 
wasn't easily taken. He survived his fathers attack and was 
unknowingly pulled from the deep by a dwarven man called Bartog.
At last it seemed Namaste had found love as this kindly dwarf raised 
him as he would a loved son.  As Namaste grew  he responded to his 
new life.
Not looking for a beating at every turn he finally  called the 
dwarf by the name he, Bartog, had longed to hear: "Father". 
At this stage in his development Namaste resolved to put his past 
ghosts to rest and went back to his village to seek his parents and 
confront them with their crimes. There ensued a trial. Once more 
his father tried to beat Namaste into submission but it was not to 
be. The village saw what had been happening and condemned his 
parents actions. Now Namaste was without family and not truly 
of the village. He was named a 'Shrider' meaning forsaken, forgotten 
and unloved. 
Returning to Thera, Namaste became of age. He discovered though that 
his newfound father and mentor, had disappeared while he was gone and 
left him the Rhyedin properties.  His life now in his own grasp he 
chose a religion following Mhalador and a guild learning the craft of
the  ninja. He learnt much until his master was scarce able to teach 
him more and then applied to join the Royal house of Rheydin. 
The time of his residence in the House of Rheydin was indeed stormy. 
People all over the lands were aghast at the doings of the Royals.
There were members that flouted the law, who robbed and attacked 
their citizens in their own town. Much rumbling was heard from the 
citizenry.  Namaste found it hard to watch his beloved city become 
more and more run down and he ran afoul of the rest of his Royal
family when he asked them to step down from their positions because
of their lack of presence. He was demoted. He came to realize he
would never make a difference so Namaste retired from public life but
was still continually hounded and bountied by his former family. 
Feelings of loss finally brought Namaste to a meeting with Alesus 
where he questioned his faith.
The demons of his past life haunting him was near too much for him to
take, but listening to Alesus gave him a little hope for the future. 
Eventually Namaste knelt at the obelisk near their meeting place and 
called upon the one it represented, Shandronas. He was granted 
audience with a ghostly representation of the long dead Elven Healer. 
Shandronas gave Namaste many truths to think about, not the least of 
which was that the way forward in his life was his alone to make.
Here are some of Shandronas words:-
"I can show you the path, Namaste. But you alone are able to walk it.'   
"The past is a blessed thing it shows us who we are.'
Namaste left from this meeting traveled the lands with nothing to 
defend himself but his faith, spreading the news to everyone.  
'Do you wish to hear of the One,' finally he decided that his roving 
days were drawing to a close, and he wanted to seek happiness in the 
building of his own family.  But that is another story.  
 
Name: Namaste 
Race: Avian
Class: Ninja
Former Member of: Rheydin
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Dobson-His Fate and Legacy~
The following story was related to me by Dobson the Younger, the son 
of the famed thief Dobson the elder, and a member of Justice.  I will 
relate it in his own words as best I can, only taking such liberties 
as are necessary to render a conversation into a written text.
 
Let me tell you first of my birth.  Though my parents loved each 
other, my father got bored and cast her aside.  To this day my mother 
speaks his name with love and tenderness.  It was a hard birth for my 
mother, who shall not be named for if her father ever found out, she 
would be cast out of elven society.  My mother feared that if any knew 
of my existence, I would be killed and so she sent me to The Shire to 
be raised by others.  She would visit often, bringing gifts and 
singing my to sleep with lullabies, though I had no idea who she was.  
Around my tenth birthday, I noticed that the crest on her wagon and 
clothing matched a medallion I wore around my neck.  I hopped into her 
wagon and rode with her all the way back to her dwelling, where I made 
her tell me the truth.  I returned to what I had always thought of as 
home and confronted my adoptive mother with what I had learned.  She 
had known my father, for he had killed her husband, but out of love 
for my mother, and later me, she had taken me in.  It was my adoptive 
mother who decided to name me after my father.  Though she hated him, 
she had a love for me that showed even through grief and hardships.  
 
Now, I had been born with quick hands and a burning curiosity, and 
Quisha, which was my adoptive mother's name, saw my father's blood 
coming out in me, so she took me to church.  I was able to progress 
rapidly through the ranks of the acolytes, and soon I was getting 
special instruction from the priests.  Though they knew of my father, 
and the shame he brought halflings everywhere, they saw the spark in 
me to become a great priest.
 
On the day I took my final vows and joined the priesthood, my mother 
came to me and we talked of my father for a long time.  I learned of 
his misdoing and the hatred he spread throughout the lands.  I also 
learned what had happened to him.  One day, he was amusing himself by 
killing guards in Val Miran, when a passing noble of Miruvhor comman-
ded him to stop.  Being an outlaw, my father refused, and when the 
noble returned home once more he exiled Dobson from Miruvhor for his 
disrespect.  Seeing this as a challenge, Dobson went straight to Miru-
vhor.  The noble had foreseen this, of course, and led a hunt to 
capture Dobson.  The thief managed to elude his would-be captors, but 
in his bravado he decided to attack the noble, who dealt him a blow 
that rendered him unconscious.  He awoke in the torture chambers, deep 
beneath the palace, surrounded by darkness.  Daily, he is tortured, 
his hands being removed as a punishment for his thievery, only to have 
them reattached and his wounds healed each night so he can be tortured 
again the next day.  He remains there to this day, in constant pain 
until his nightly healing, waiting for death to finally claim him.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
History on Seiluna Sitple~
Seiluna Sitple was raised in the elf valley, but at an early age she 
left there following a dispute with her family.  She eventually made 
her way to Val Miran, where she lived a pauper's existence, doing 
whatever she could find to make ends meet.  In time, she found a place 
as a servant in the temple of light, assisting in whatever needed 
doing.  As she became more familiar with the work in the temple, she 
began to take on extra duties.  She began handing out food to the 
poor, and aiding in the care of the sick, seeking to make a difference 
in the lives of others.  She so impressed the priests of the temple 
that they sponsored her into the cleric guild.
 
In her travels, she made many friends.  Among them was a djinni by the 
name of Nonaros.  It was through him that she met an elven woman named 
Calixta and a human named Sarrundai, a king from a land called Caler-
ia, somewhere beyond the sea.  It was obvious from the beginning that 
Calixta and Nonaros were trying to match Seiluna and Sarrundai.  After 
spending the evening together, Seiluna and Sarrundai devised a plan to 
pretend to hate each other and frustrate their two friends.  However, 
the truth was that they had already fallen in love.  Sarrundai pro-
posed, she accepted, and they were wed a few days later.  At their 
wedding, Lord Azraeth appeared, and gave Seiluna a black rose, in ill-
omened gift that proved prophetic.  For a time they were happy, until 
the occasion of a get-together with several friends on an island in 
the Dune Sea.  Seiluna was amusing herself by summoning Calixta from 
place to place.  On one such occasion, she summoned her just as Calix-
ta was telling another friend about her sleeping with Sarrundai.  
Sarrundai happened to be with Seiluna as she heard these words, and 
fled her presence, confirming his guilt.  She soon divorced Sarrundai 
and he later killed himself in front of her in the Central Square of 
Val Miran, begging for one last kiss that she could not find it in her 
heart to give him.
 
Sometime later, Seiluna's father became ill, and she returned to the 
Elven Valley to reconcile with her family and help in his care.  It 
was during her absence that Lord Sirant rejected the light for the 
ways of darkness, and on her return she sought the details from an 
acquaintance she had met before; the former Knight Moriath, who had 
followed his Lord into darkness.  Moriath seemed more than willing to 
talk to the fair healer, even breaking into the palace on occasion to 
speak to her.  She soon discovered that he was only using her to gain 
information on Athelea, but by then she had become quite attached to 
the servant of the Dark Lord.  Another friend of hers, a monk named 
Raskin Racaline, noticed her attraction to Moriath, and sought to woo 
her away from him.  Moriath's frequent absences in search of a path to
immortality gave Raskin the chance he needed, and he persuaded her to 
marry him.  At the wedding, Moriath gave appeared and gave her a 
single black rose, a grim reminder of her first marriage of which he 
was fully aware.  In anger Raskin pursued Moriath across the land, 
leaving his new bride alone on her wedding night.
 
In time, they reconciled, and Seiluna became pregnant, but great tra-
gedy struck when she was killed by a Wyrm shortly before the child was 
born.  In despair, Seiluna decided to leave the royal house and go 
into retirement.  However, the gods had plans for her son, and would 
not allow his death to stand.  A healer Knight named Rhett Hobcaw 
dreamed of the child, and learned how the child might be restored.  He 
sacrificed his life-force for the child, and Taeloth finally took his 
first breath.  Two things marked Taeloth at his birth: first, he was 
born with wings, and second, he has been blessed by the gods of Light. 
When Taeloth grew old enough to be out on his own, Seiluna returned to 
the court of Val Miran, and has recently been restored to the rank of 
Duchess.  She has also sought a divorce from Raskin, on the grounds of
abandonment, as it has been some time since she has seen him.
 
Name: Seiluna Sitple
Race: Elf
Class: Healer
Member of: Val Miran-Elder Band of Light-Elder
 
~

Historian Zeyrsi~
History on Vormav the Count~
Meditations on Undeath - The Journal of the Unliving
 
I Vormav, Vampire, Once of Syndicate, now of the forces of Death do write
this tome. As I am dead and have dealt death, I consider myself to be
somewhat experienced on the subject and I would give my thoughts so
that others may follow on from what I will begin now.
 
When dealing with such serious natures it is important to know the history
of the writer. As a child I was afflicted with an unknown ailment. Blood was
the only known cure for this illness and as I grew, I became addicted to it.
During my childhood years, the blood of animals would suffice however as
I became more mature in years so did my cravings. After being forcibly
removed from my community, I ventured forth in to the world in search of
new blood. It was about this time that Arzaeth was able to give me the
answer to my addiction to blood. I was indeed some sort of Vampire,
perhaps not in its fullness yet that is what I became after Arzaeth was
finished with me. Now, to the meditation itself.
 
Day of the Sun, 20th of the Month of Winter
 
Strange thoughts, unbidden, began to come to me during my reign of feeding.
Thoughts that have led me to this entry. Why, would a lord of Death, Arzaeth
create such a being as myself. Do not the Lord of Death thrive on the ending
of a mortal soul? Is not my very existence spitting in the face of death, for
while power was granted to me on that fateful day, so too was Immortality.
I am not bound by the endings that are given to mortal beings in the hands
of Arzaeth, Arithis and Virigoth.
 
With this theory at hand, I turned to the only other force who perhaps could
have been behind the ruse. Bryntryst, through his minion Xuthravor could very
well have been the conductor of this mirage. For who would profit more by
creating one such as I? Dischord and its mayhem more than any. Dischord
to cancel the natural cycle of things such as death. Dischord in the realms
as I the unliving feed on the souls and bodies of my generation. So the truth
is revealed and how typical it is of Dischord, to manipulate and blind those
who it uses.
 
Vormav, Chaos Minion. Day of the Sun, 20th of the Month of Winter
~

Historian Zeyrsi~
History on Hero Charim~
Charim Toshnak, began in the nomadic clan of Toshnak. The 
nomadic clan of Toshnak is shown as a base of power,
integrating those who were conquered. With a clan of mixed
bloods, the Toshnak had to teach what they were best known
for, there amazing resourcefulness. Long have they lived in the
Ford amongst themselves, hunting and training days and
nights, providing wisdom to the younger and less civilized.
But Charim is a natural master, and had spent many month
training as a true Toshnak. Soon in his life, the time came
when Charim wished advanced training, and there he found
this with Warmaster. Proving his style was unique, an event
occured that still lives in his battle worn soul. When
establishing his true dominance over Charim, the Warlord
Rukawa had challenged Charim which ended in Rukawas
defeat. Charim was proven worthy, and rose quickly in the
Warmasters. His Leadership after Grell was slain by the Nexus
Dark Knight Corinna, was brought into being. Charim defeated 
many that were famous for there combative skills such as
Aurehlian and Luorath. Luorath was a particularly special
challenge. Virigoth set his two candidates for Hero of Warriors
before him, and made them fight for this title. Luorath had 
been disarmed and Charim grabbed his weapon to use,
making a short and desicive victory. In the end, Luorath was
Hero of Warriors, and Charim was made Hero of Warmasters.
Later on, Luorath rose to the heavens in an Immortal form and
Charim was made Hero of Warriors.
Name: Charim Toshnak
Race: Fire Giant
Class: Warrior
Known as: Hero of Warmaster
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Athelea-Hope's Beacon Vol. 1~
Athelea was born to a noble house of the city of Val Miran, a house 
with a proud lineage dating back for longer than most of the Royal dy-
nasties of that city.  However, when she was a small child, her father 
moved her mother and her to a small village near Banor Forest after a 
fateful battle with a vampire.  During the course of the fight, her 
father had been infected with the curse of undeath.  He became gravely 
ill, as the infection in his body began the conversion from living to 
unliving flesh.  Even at her early aged, Athelea realized that once 
the taint had run it's course, her father would be gone and  a crea-
ture of darkness take his place.  And that is what happened.  Her 
father disappeared into the night, and she never saw him again, though 
she heard tales of his dark activities.  For this reason she does not 
choose to go by her family name, preferring to be known simply as 
Athelea.
 
Athelea made her way to Val Miran, where she set out to redeem the 
heritage of her family.  She joined the royal house of Val Miran at a 
time of great conflict, the beginning of the long war with the Nexus.  
In those days, it was not uncommon for to see hordes of demons roaming 
the street, and the royal house of the city was greatly diminished.  
Young Athelea found a mentor in the Duchess Liandra, a fellow healer.  
They spent many long hours together discussing their hopes and plans 
for the city, and in time became like family to one another.  Much of 
what Athelea knows of diplomacy, she credits to Liandra's instruction. 
It was a great tragedy when Liandra chose to take her own life to ap-
pease the Warlord Charim of the Warmasters, especially since it left 
young Athelea standing almost alone against the Nexus.
 
Athelea went through changes after Liandra's death.  No longer the 
young girl who came to Val Miran seeking her heritage, she took on the 
burden of responsibility for the lives of her citizens, as well as the 
newer members of the house.  She came to look on the people of her 
city as her own children, and to love them as a mother would.  She 
watched as they grew and matured, she shared in their triumphs, fai-
lures and despairs, and they in turn came to trust and respect her.  
She became known as the Beacon of Hope, for even those who were 
shunned by society and immortal alike would find a friend in her to 
help them seek redemption.  Her new station was not without price, 
however.  She felt her roll as Queen and Matriarch could not be set 
aside for a moment to live the life of a mere woman, so she urged her 
would-be suitors to turn elsewhere, and forget their feelings for her. 
She has been assisted in her work by able young nobles, such as Isa-
beau, Seiluna, and Sonterralla.  There have been dark times, as well, 
for Athelea and her city, as when Sirant was finally destroyed in the 
abandoned Temple of Darkness, after laying much of the rest of the 
city to waste.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Athelea-Hope's Beacon Vol. 2~
At one point in Athelea's life, she travelled from the city for a 
time, seeking to resolve certain issues in her own life and to come to 
grips with her past.  She wandered the lands restlessly, until she 
chance upon a region she had not travelled before.  There she encoun-
ter a leper, who told her a prophecy:  The Prophecy of the Black Rose. 
He told her that in a moment of weakness, she would bear a child, and 
though its flesh would be fashioned from her own, its soul would be an 
extension of chaos.  Years later, that Prophecy would be fulfilled.  
During the time of the madness of Sirant, Athelea conceived a child
through the drinking of a powerful elixir and the strength of her own 
principles, hoping to create a champion of Faith to challenge the Dark 
God.  She named the child Aynia, a child who upon birth would be grea-
ter than the mortals around her.  Yet Aynia never knew of her origins, 
for Athelea wished to wait until her daughter was mature enough to 
handle the knowledge.  Unfortunately, Aynia was abducted a few years 
short of her majority, and until the end of her life, Athelea was un-
able to find word of her.  Even the divine were unable to give her the 
answers she sought.
 
There came a dark time in her life when Airen, accusing her of an in-
terest in Airen's husband, turned to the ways of Darkness and became 
undead under the control of Lord Xuthravoth.  Some time later, the 
Balrog brought his servant to the heart of Val Miran, and used her to 
open a rift in the sky.  The process apparently caused Airen pain, for 
as she screamed, the rift of loathsome colors grew.  Though many 
tried, nothing could be done to keep the rift at bay.  A voice was 
heard from beyond the rift, which Athelea recognized as her daugh-
ter's.  Lord Luqin soon appeared to seek to oppose the Dark God and 
close the rift.  He spoke of a way to close the rift by the sacrifice 
of one person who would enter the rift and close it from the other
side.  Many volunteered, but the Queen felt the place was hers.  While 
Xuthravoth was distracted, Luqin sent Athelea through the rift, even 
as those in the square prayed for salvation.  Lord Luqin appeared 
greatly weakened, nearly to the point of his destruction, but the 
prayers of the faithful sustained him.  As Athelea passed through the 
rift, it began to close, and Airen slowly walked from the Balrog's 
side to stand by the fallen form of the Lord of Compassion.  At that 
moment, Lord Moleran arrived and restored Lord Luqin to health.  The 
rift slowly closed, with the great Queen trapped on the other side 
forever.  Her life ended as it was lived, serving her city and the 
light and saving the lives of those who could not help themselves.  A 
great memorial was held soon, led by the Duchess Isabeau, to honor the 
memory of the dearly loved Heroine of the Light.

Name: Athelea
Race: Elf
Class: Healer
Member of: Val Miran-Leader
Known as: The Beacon of Hope, Heroine of the Healers
 
                           Black Petals
                        By Sereniel Quis
                           For Athelea
 
                 Black petals on a dusty ground
                      Swirling in the mist
                    Black petals lying alone
                  Forced in solitude to exist
 
                Black petals in the morning light
                    With the dawn awak'ning
                 Black petals there still at dusk
                   Their children not forsaking
 
                 Black petals under a winter sky
                The earth lays 'neath the Shadow
                 Black petals under an empty sky
                   With no light to reach below
 
                Black petals carried by the winds
                    Frail and worn with care
                Black petals sailing to the stars
             Spirit stronger than the shell they wear
~

Scribe Brysingel~
Oog of Val Miran.~
Oog has been on this land of Thera for longer than I can remem-
ber, I asked him his age and was told he was sixty three. As a 
youngling by his own admission his temper was an uncontrollable 
force, and so he grew. Until he met a man, a tall man in shiny 
armor is what the young Oog saw and  that man taught him the con-
trol that was to help him survive his bouts of rage. The mans 
name was Indegal and he was to become young Oog's mentor. The 
other most important lesson that Indegal taught Oog was that 'One 
man Can make a difference'. He tried to live by this. Oog thought 
he could help most by becoming a Val Miran Royal, so this he set 
out to do, it was a time of turmoil and darkness covered the 
lands like a blanket, The king disappeared  and Oog became king 
at the urging of the immortals as it was considered the town 
should fall if he did not. During this time he was influenced 
mightily by Lord Eitreach. He ruled Val Miran for ten years and 
during that time he met a young druid named Lum. They loved each 
other, and decided to marry, the day was set.  One beautiful Sun-
day morning Oog set out to marry his Druid but when he went to 
seek her out all he found was a note. Lum was dead. To make mat-
ters worse his best advisor was soon killed,  along with the 
second advisor, both these deaths Oog thinks were because someone 
was actually after him. All of these occurrences led to Oog de-
ciding to leave Thera, he says mostly because of his lost love 
but the other deaths certainly played a part in his decision. I 
asked him what happened then?  
He said 'So I left, I went to a far off land to be alone '..
'You left The royal House", I asked..
He said 'Everything'. 
He left Athelea in charge. But, he could not find solace in the 
far off land , he knew in his heart that peace of mind would 
never happen unless he faced his fears. He was alone on the is-
land for many years and finally one day he got a message from the 
air that these lands could once again use his help. He decided to 
return but was greeted by all as if he was a ghost.. Many thought 
of him a living dead man, but finally they found that he was ac-
tually still the same person he had been all those years before, 
and he was asked by Luqin himself to return to the Royal house of 
Val Miran. He has been welcomed back into the royal house with 
open arms. I asked him had he got over his love for Lum but he 
says in all honesty he will always love her. Although he thinks 
he can love again but also thinks no-one will want to love an old 
ogre like him. 
~

Scholar Leto Demena~
Record of Ralos Roolan~
Ralos Roolan, son of Relos, is a dwarf, who's homeland can be found
just west of the Dead Sea.  An imposing figure, both in manner and stance,
he was born with a natural ability in the finer arts of a cleric.  At an early 
age, he knew it was not for him, to stay about his dwarven stronghold,
mining, or in turn, protecting the mines.  Ralos could not deny the strong
pull, perhaps even will, of the East, calling to him.  Resist this pull he did
not, and with surprising ease, departed the lands of his great ancestors
to take up residence in the fine city of Val Miran.
 
It was in Val Miran that he did come upon a guildhall in which a High Cleric
of Light did teach, and soon was taken in as an apprentice.  Quickly Ralos
did learn the more specific talents the cleric profession does offer, and was
not only a good student, but quite adept in his skills.  He of course was also
taught the basic means of defense and combat, in order to protect himself,
and found that there were few who could oppose him in battle.
 
A revalation did soon make it clear in Ralos's mind, that The One had sent him
to Val Miran purposely, with a divine and moral duty to preform.  Though this
land that many of us call home was a bit to bright for him, being use to the
natural darkness and shadows of his underground home, he did remain in 
order to fulfill his desires, and the will of The One who so sent him.
Soon Ralos did begin to hear rumors of the displeasure many of the Royal
Houses did hold towards those of the Justice organization.  The outlaws did
run amuck freely in the lands unchecked, harassing many and destroying
lives.  It was then that he did realize that his gift, bestowed upon him by his
God, was intended for a deeper purpose, that of maintaining the peace, and
protecting the lives of those to whom he shared this land with.  Not long
after this clarity was discovered, he did find himself speaking with Arther,
stating his case and reasons as to why a Justice member he surely had to be.
Arther, being a divinity hard to impressed, was not swayed by Ralos's words,
and when the dwarf did say that death would come to those bearing the mark
of the criminal, the God of Law did nod, and so instructed Ralos to prove it.
 
From that day on, Ralos has been a most vital member to the Justice.  He 
grew quickly and learned much, and feared not even the vilest of ciminals.
Arther was pleased, and did issue a statement to all the organization that he,
or she, who did bring down the two leaders of the enemy fractions would take
lead of the Justice Cabal in place of the missing Kelbik.  It was time, Ralos's
time, to show his worth and devotion to the path that he so served.  Long he
waited for his chance, but knew he would not be denied.  Finally, his foes did
make an appearance, and as so promised, their lives ended swiftly at the sharp
edge of the blade, carried by Ralos.  Arther was finally impressed, and with
graditude, did bestow the the rank of Leader onto Ralos, a position of high
regard and great responsibility.
 
Ralos has done well as Leader, the criminal element has dropped, and folks
can now wander about the cities without extreme fear, as they once did feel.
For the future, Ralos does plan many things, though to myself, he merely
hinted on a few.  Alliances to be made, trade to grow and flourish, are but two
of his master plans.
 
Name: Ralos Roolan
Race: Dwarf
Class: Cleric
Title: The Right Hand of the Law
Organization: Justice, Leader.
~

Herald Leto Demena~
Regent Galvatar Xebonn~
Galvatar Xebonn, of the House Xebonn, was originally from the Drow city
Xy'merria, where he did spend most of his life before moving to Miruvhor.  I
was intrested to know that his family did actually come from the Dark City,
but fled just before the Catalysm in order to save their own lives.  This of
course was long before Galvatar was born, but his people had once held high
positions in the Noble House of Miruvhor.  When the Gods brought down their
fury upon the lands, the citizens of course blamed the ruling government,
this being the reason why his ancestors were exiled.  In Xy'merria, Galvatar
was trained, and studied under the patronage of the famed Drow scholar
X'ertia, in the arts of the cleric profession.  It was in such studies that
he did slowly become aware of the fact that there was a universal movement
in all living things towards death, and rather that to attempt in vain to
control this force that many call the Cycle, he would do better to
understand and examine it.  This is where Galvatar found his first true
calling, as a Priest to the High Lord Virigoth.  All this took place within
his first fifty years of life.  Soon, being the oldest living male in his
family Galvatar took over the position of leader, after the death of his
father.  He guided his people in power and wealth for another twenty years,
always dodging assassins and the blades of rouges who sought to take this
rightful place from him.  It did not take long though for Galvatar to grow
dissatisfied with his place in the lands.  With a passion, he then began to
research his family, and came upon the ancient texts that recorded his
ancestor's Royal lineage.  Ambition swelled his brain, and for ten years he
debated within himself if he should leave and claim his rightful place. 
Ironically, this decision was made for Galvatar.  It was a dark, winter's
eve that Galvatar was praying in his chambers when he looked behind himself
to see the visage of a decayed Drow.  He was clad in purple and emerald
hues, colors so recognized from the books of his family.  It was the spirit
of one of his ancient relatives, wearing the clothes of his nobility.  Such
words this specter did speak to him, Galvatar dared not to repeat, to myself
or any other, but to make it simple, they did properly motivate him to begin
his preparations.  A short time later he did emerge from the dark underworld
of the drow city into the harsh sunlight of the lands above.  Slowly he did
adapt, and made his way to Miruvhor.  It was when he finally reached his
destination that he began working on his own Cycle.  He grew quickly, and
learned more rapidly than one could imagine, making himself strong in order
to follow the destiny that was lined up before him.  Galvatar was displeased
to find the Royal House of his families origin vacant, empty, lacking
organization and the power that rightfully it did command.  He knew it was
time, his time, to do as he was told and believed.  He did scribe to the
masses, and was elected by quite a margin, to the Royal House, and did
quickly make an impression.  Before long, Galvatar did find himself in
complete power, leading his people as their rightful Ruler.  So far,
Galvatar has done quite well as the Regent of Miruvhor.  He has many plans
for the future, in order to the bring his City the wealth and power it once
did hold.  His respect for all is one that I find amazing, for it is a trait
that even few of my fellow lightwalkers can truly claim to have.  Galvatar
is currently rebuilding the ports of his city, and will soon command a grand
fleet to rule the seas, in aims to create better trade and prosperity to
help his township grow.  He also plans to implement strict laws in order to
better care for his people, for a power such as his can not be ruled by
chaos.  At his request, I bring a formal address to all Therans, and so
include it within my tome, in order to capture such a moment in time.  With
the posture of a True King, Galvatar did stand before me, and so speak the
following message: To my supporters I say this.  Know that your faith in me
has not been misplaced.  Miruvhor will once again be heard in the lands as
loud as giants.  To my detractors?  Well, all I can say is that you have but
to look to the seas, and very shortly you will see just what Galvatar's
machinations have wrought.  
 
Name: Galvatar Xebonn
Race: Drow
Guild: Cleric
Organization/Rank: Miruvhor Royalty/Regent
~

Herald Leto Neesa~
History of Kiyana Dolenox~
Kiyana was born on the outskirts of a small village found deep within a
forest.  She herself recalls not the name of the area, nor the woods that
were her home, and in truth spent little of her time in the company of her
people, this being due to the fact that her mother was considered an outcast
by the society.  Kiyana grew quickly in her youth, learning a few tricks of
healing from her mother, always in preparation for the future.  It was at
the age of one hundred that Kiyana did begin the series of trials, or quest
if you prefer, that would grant her adult status in the eyes of her peers. 
Three tasks, she was to preform, and the first two were completed with ease.
The third, Kiyana did explain to me, was one that could take a lifetime to
achieve, and as she was considering where to go, and what to do, in order to
discover her path, she was taken in an ambush by of group of Drows from the
House Baerne.  She was then taken into their lands of the underdark, and
made servant to a Drow matron by the name of Liriel.  Under her mistress,
Kiyana was forced to preform menial tasks, curing light wounds and fevers. 
Of course this Drow woman had other intentions, for she was quite interested
in the study of half breeds, and this is where Kiyana did come in most
useful.  For thirty years Kiyana was forced to do her Mistress's work, and
after all that time, never produced the half elf, half drow Liriel was
seeking.  In anger, the drow female sought to take Kiyana life, leaving her
on the stairs of death deep within the dark tunnels of the lair to which had
been her prison.  By a faint miracle, Kiyana was able to drag herself to
freedom, and once again breathed the pure, clean air of the surface world,
basking in the golden rays of the sun.  Again fate did smile on Kiyana,and
she was soon discovered in her damaged state by a human male by the name of
Gradlieh, a kindly fellow who, with the aid of his family, nursed her back
to health.  This human was merchant who traveled the lands, frequenting the
township of Shasarazade, and when Kiyana's natural healing talents were
discovered, they urged her to join the guild of clerics, where she studied
for sometime before devoting her skills to that of the healer profession. 
This is when Kiyana's life in the civilized lands of Thera did begin.  Her
natural abilitieshelp her much, and not long after she entered the Tower of
Savants as a student.  She met many people as she traveled the lands, and
soon fell in love with another of her kind, an elf by the name of Khileg who
at the time held the throne of Val Miran as king.  It was not long after
their wedding that Kiyana did fall into a deep coma, one that would hold her
prisoner for many years.  When finally she did awake, it was like entering a
new world.  Her Khileg had vanished, and she had been removed from the
Savants, who had assumed the worst and believed her to be dead.  It was like
starting again, but Kiyana was not afraid, and quickly entered into society
again.  Once, not long after she did return, her husband, Khileg, she did
see, but he did not remember her, nor much of anything else.  After time she
was able to heal most of his memory, though it was a bit distorted, and he
accused Kiyana of infidelity, then soon after divorced her.  After that, she
never saw him again, and though mourn she did for his loss, she learned and
moved one as we all must sometimes do.  Again Kiyana sought entry into the
Tower, and was welcomed back with open arms.  Soon after this Kiyana made a
slight mistake, attacking someone in the city limits of Rheydin.  Namaste,
who was leader of this fine city at the time ordered her wanted, and did
send the Justice organization after her.  Kiyana, being a lawful woman, did
turn herself in, and after a short time spent in a musty jail cell she was
released, and quickly made her apologizes to the city and its leaders.  That
was when she officially met Namaste, and soon again love did find her, and
she was married.  From this union, a child was recently born to them, a son
named Rialian Dolenox, who is being raised on another plane, safe from those
who have since conspired to hurt the child.  Kiyana has seen and witness
much in this world, and I imagine soon her final quest will be completed,
doing a greater good for Thera and its people.  Kiyana is one of deep
compassion and kindness, always willing to aid those around her in any
possible way. 
~

Scribe Aegilia Bael~
Darkest Side of Kiyana~
Prologue:
 
During every person's life, they are incorporated in something that after the
fact, they wish they hadn't done.  This is the dark side of every living mortal,
for we all are two sided.  Though very few realize it, this dark side will come
out, no matter the attempts to conceal it.  This dark side comes out eventually,
those who walk the light, try to conceal it the best they can.  Those who walk
the dark bring it out and use it to their advantage.  The ones who walk the
light, no matter how much they attempt to conceal it, will always be ashamed of
this fact.  No matter how straight his or her walk upon the path of light may
look to be, everyone strays from it at a time.  This tome describes that
straying off of the path of light that Kiyana had done, from the lips of
Atardoth Dolenox, the evil son of Kiyana.  Kiyana, revered as the 'Matron of
Time' and called 'The Holy Cleric', had strayed from this path of light she so
boldly stood for.  This tome in purpose is not to tarnish the memory of Kiyana,
but to bring to light the side that she kept hidden in the shadows.  It also
reveals the jaunt that Atardoth has then since, been taking to overcome the
wrongs done to him by his mother, Kiyana.
~

Herald Daemian Sathyr~
Ellikain, the Blasphemere~
To some, being forcibly removed from title, position and faith is a 
fate worse than death.  In fact, many choose death over living under 
those conditions. None know this better than sir Ellikain, formerly of 
the Knight cabal.
 
His story begins with his induction and Knighthood.  He and his 
comrades battled endlessly the hordes of undead, the scores of 
vampires and the scourge of demons they sought to exterminate.
Eventually, Ellikain became well known and respected for his skill,
and new how to battle the undead and the vampires in such a way
that they were hardly even sport.  But the demons troubled him.
They sought to corrupt and degenerate the mind, and not the body.
Ellikain was subjected to hellish images and deceptive thoughts, 
but endured untill they finally receded from his mind's corners.
That is, until Kylthean, then the god of Greed took possession of 
the Castle.  Ellikain was unsure of Kylthean's role as Lord over 
their Castle, and questioned his commitment.  For doing this, he 
was cast from the ranks of the Knights, and his comrades turned 
their back upon him.  The mental onslaughts began with renewed 
vigor, and Ellikain found himself waning in the face of his 
adversaries.  They eventually hijacked his senses, and subjected 
him to the deceptive joys of greed and power.  He claims he no
longer had control of his person, that the Torments (as he calls 
them) drew him as a puppet in to the arms of the Balor, Xuthravoth.
 
As a toy of his new master, Ellikain battled against the Knights
under the direction of the things controlling his mind.  He was not 
even aware that his wife, the healer Malynne had born his child.
When she confronted her husband, she did not run, or show signs 
of fear.  Instead, he kissed him.  It was with that kiss that the plague
within Ellikains consciousness was cast away, and he was set again
upon his true path.  But as of now, the 53rd of Death, 460 PC, 
Elliakin fights to show mortal and god alike, that he is renewed in 
purpose, and strong again in Faith.
~

Historic Moments~ 11
Scholar Miartos Quiderzes~
Huchshew and the Darvangs.~
The Huckshews were once a peaceful bunch of caring and loving gnomes 
that went about their daily lives tinkering away with their inventions 
bound to fail. There was one thing special about them however, this 
tribe is the only recorded one in existence that allowed the use of 
magic combined with their inventions, to make them actually work, and 
work well they did. Their neighbors, the Darvangs, soon grew jealous 
and begin recruiting magi of their own. The talented magi, willing to 
tolerate the gnomes already lived with the Huckshew, so only the evil 
fiends of the lands came to their call. After time, all grew normal, 
that is until the wedding of the Huckshew daughter with the Darvang 
son. One of the Darvangs magi, who happened to be a shaman,(his name 
was lost with the ages) became entranced with the young maiden and 
stole her away before she was wed, and cast a spell upon the Darvangs 
which caused them to rage into war. Panic stricken, the Huckshews 
captured and executed all magi and their apprentices in order to save 
themselves, but with their leaders dying breath, he cast a curse on 
them all and muttered a prayer to Mircea. Many hours passed before the
prayer reached his ears far into the planes beyond. The tribes had  
many battles, few with bloodshed, if there was any it would be from 
unrelated accidents. Though to the gnomes, insulting ones ability to 
invent is more hurtful than any physical blow and many were passed 
out. However the corpses of the magi lay strewn on poles, bloody from 
the stones cast on them by the raging gnomes. Mircea was outraged and
demanded a halt to these idiotic acts on both sides. He called a 
meeting of both tribes, the feast was enormous and the food plenty.
Both the curse and the hex were still taking affect so Mircea brought
out his world famous, Seagull stew, enchanted with magic to cure both
the hex and the curse. The gnomes at like pigs and stuffed themselves 
with the magic meals, curing any ailments they might have. An 
agreement was made then and there that magic shall never again be 
intertwined with their gnomish inventions, which that night alone 
caused 3 fires, 4 explosions, and 32 busted rumps from "improved" 
chairs.
 
Miartos Quiderzes, Scholar of the Shire
~

Herald Zeyrsi~
Tragedy of Sirant: Book 1~
The day started like any other. Mundane, with the exception of a settling 
breeze long waited upon by the sun flustered commoners. The night 
had passed quietly, having brought this cold wind that put down the 
three-day heat wave that Rheydin was enduring. Time flew gently on
the breeze up until the noon bells sang, and the rays of the sun beamed 
out of the sky.  Yet another mild time to get out and enjoy the day. An 
Immortal voice shook the lands, with words reaching out to the minds of 
mortals: 
 
"Gather at the Center of Rheydin for a competition. All may join." 
 
Pilgrims gathered, and had amassed  in the Center square of Rheydin 
around the ethereal white visage of an old man,  Sirant the Complacent, 
God of the Lightwalkers, stood like a beacon. Voices stirred and small 
talk buzzed about the square. Suddenly the old man huffed, "It is time 
we begin." He continued, "We will need one representative of the good, 
evil, and neutral paths," After a bit of voting amongst the commoners, 
three competitors proven to have the strength and wits, were chosen, 
and stood forward to meet the unknown: Caan Tierathon, a Ranger of 
the Warmasters, Festorvian the Duergar, feared Cleric and Outlaw, and 
Moriath the Avian, a Ninja of the Knights. "The winner shall face me," 
assured Sirant with a mischevious smile. Conversation continued and 
whispers spread as to the nature of the competition. "It will be a 
debate," Sirant declared, "And Caan and Festorvian shall be first. The 
topic is: Which set of ethics, good or evil, builds the more stable 
society?" Festorvian, paradoxically assigned to defend the light, spoke 
first and preached valiantly about a society rich with honor and morality, 
trust and strength in unity. Caan, taking the side of darkness, continued 
with the virtues of ruling a society by an iron fist. Respect would be 
demanded and surely only a stable society could exist. Both spoke very 
eloquently, but when the public was allowed to vote, Festorvian was 
proven to have made the better point. Sirant nodded, and congratulated 
the victor. The next topic was already in mind, and Sirant proceeded 
with this game of wits. Festorvian was to debate Moriath on the topic, 
"Which makes the more successful general: the warrior or the mage?" 
Festorvian was chosen again; to take the opposing role of himself, and 
explain the warrior, speaking about the respect troops show a battle 
hardened general. Cape flickering in the air and blade glistening in the 
sun, it is hard to disobey the glorious general. Moriath spoke the mind of 
mages, telling how the persistent calculations of a mage would be 
necessary to plan a victory. This time the debate ran further, and made 
the commoners a bit more enthusiastic, and Moriath was chosen the 
winner. The apex of the debate was reached, it was time to match 
minds with the all knowledgeable, Sirant. But the god did not seem to 
show the amusement one would expect, but had a rather a serious look. 
He began with a heed of warning, "Choose the side you know best, for I 
am quite adept." Moriath could only choose the side he knew, the light. 
The topic was then decided, "Which position makes the most powerful 
God?" Sirant was to defend the role of evil. 
 
The debate had hardly been under way and already Sirant was 
speaking with broad gestures, proud of his every word and seeming to 
not get enough of  the sound of his own voice. Moriath tried to interject 
with the strength of compassion and trust of the Light, but Sirant went 
off like a war chariot at full speed. "A God of the Light will only be 
drained by his followers, each begging for a piece of his power. Clerics 
and Paladins, tripping over their own feet to impress their God, only to 
push for the reward the second the deed is done." Sirants words were 
spoken with force and almost seemed to draw from too much emotion. 
"A dark lord will be served by only the strongest and not have to sit 
there answering countless pointless prayers. Feed me, guide me, help 
me, empower me- the children of the Light will pray, UNWILLING to 
help themselves. I grow weaker with every prayer, with every warcry, 
with every blessing asked of me." Sirants eyes began to cloud a deep 
red and people began to realize this wasn't a debate any longer. This 
was the transformation of Sirant.
 
These are the words written by Sirant. Transcribed by Herald Zeyrsi.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Greginsham-Ruins of Glory~
High in the Dragon's Teeth Mountains, east of Rheydin, lies the re-
mains of the once great city of Greginsham, known as the "City of the 
Winds" for the way the elves that lived there used chimes and stream-
ers to harness the mountain winds for an artistic display of sound and
color.  The city began as an outpost of the Elven Warders, tasked with
defending the western border of the elven kingdom from the orcs of the
mountains.  As trade grew with the humans who lived beyond the western 
mountains, it grew to become a major city and the western capital of
the kingdom.  As the corruption known as the Forsaken Lands slowly 
swallowed the once mighty elven nation, more of the elven race began
to move west.  When the ancient capital of Alfenham was swallowed by 
the blight, the royal court moved to Greginsham.
 
Throughout the city's existance, the orcs had been more of a nuisance
than a threat, thanks to their tendency to spend as much time fighting
each other as attacking the elves.  However, one dark day a strong
chieftain arose among the beastial orcs, and united the clans to war
on their ancient enemies.  The chieftain, named Grugar, raided village
after village, driving the elves before them all the way to Gregins-
ham.  Once there, he moved his forces to beseige the city.  The seige
stretched out for more than a month, with the orcs throwing themselves
at the walls nightly, only to be repulsed by the elven defenders.  At
times the elves overcame the attacks only by the thinnest of margins.
Still, the elves felt themselves safe behind their walls since their 
wizards and priests could provide food and water for the people, while
the orcs had to forage in the countryside.  Unfortunately, the elves 
had failed to reckon with the orcs' tunneling ability.  The attacks on
the wall had been merely a distraction for the true attack; a tunnel
into the city's sewer system.  When the time was right, the elves
found themselves fighting both at the walls, and within the city it-
self.  Knowing that the elves couldn't hold the city, the king ordered
it to be abandoned.  While the elven army formed a wall to slow the
enemy advance, the elves fled by the only route remaining open to 
them.  Using potion, scroll, spell, and item, they flew from the cliff
on the south side of the city to the forest below.  Though the orcs 
were caught off guard for a time by the elves surprising use of magic,
they soon took up the chase of the elven refugees.  The pursuit conti-
nued over the mountains, until finally the remains of the elven army
turned to make a stand at the Valley of the Winds, allowing the rest
of the refugees to reach Shasarazade.  Bolstered by forces from the
last remaining elven city, for a time the elves were able to hold the
orcs at bay.  But the orc shamans unleashed foul shadowstalkers which
drained the lives of the elven defenders.  All might have been lost 
for the elven race, if it hadn't been for one moment of fate.  Grugar
the orc and the elf king, Silandriel Escabrai, found themselves face 
to face on the field of battle.  Great were the blows that fell, and
soon both rulers found themselves bleeding from numerous cuts.  Final-
ly, the orc struck a resounding blow against the head of the elf with
the side of his axe.  The blow knocked the helmet from the head of the
elf king, and drove him to the ground.  With an evil gleam in his eye,
the orc stepped in to cleave the head of the elf with his axe, but by 
some miracle, the elf king found the strength to raise his sword, and
even as the axe split his skull, his sword found the heart of his ene-
my.  This turned the tide of battle, for even though the orcs vastly
outnumbered the elves, the rest of the orc chieftains fell to fighting
among themselves to see who would lead the army, and the resulting
chaos allowed the elves to withdraw behind the walls of Shasarazade.
The vast orc horde soon disolved into numerous squabbling bands, and
the elven race breathed a sigh of relief.
 
Greginsham still lives in the hearts of the elves of the west.  Though
the lives lost there has left the elves too weak to strike at the dis-
organized orcs, they vow that someday "Greginsham will be ours again".
~

Historian Airen Mirelle~
The Slumber of Tarandue~
It was actually Herald Zeyrsi who had been traveling the southern road
near Tarandue when he felt a slight shudder in the earth several days ago. 
Immediately he called to me and I joined him at the spot, to see what else
would come about.  Together, we witnessed a strange cackling, which echoed
in the air as the wind picked up.  Then, strangely, I fell asleep, as if I
had been hit in the head.  Zeyrsi fell victim to the drowsiness as well, and
we lay asleep upon the road for several hours before coming to.  Zeyrsi
scouted north and south to see if anything lay in wait there, while I stood
in place, making sure nothing strange passed by again I was struck with
sleep.  When I woke once more, I called out to my dear friend Duchess
Athelea, who came to our aid at once.  It was then that the three of us,
huddled on the road, saw a large flash of light in the western sky, sending
crows fleeing far to the east.  Of course, we decided to venture west into
the town.  
 
The entire town was asleep; gnomes lay snoring in the streets, crows 
fell from the sky in mid-flight. We continued onward into the 
scarecrow fields. It was here we came upon Randall, the trainer of the 
area. Around this time, a thousand whispers hailed down upon our ears,  
and Randall fell asleep. When awakened, he growled at us, grew 
violent, and even attempted to kill Zeyrsi, before returning to sleep. 
This went on for quite some time, until we were able to deduce some 
odd pieces of information. At one point, Randall claimed to be hearing 
music. Also, whenever we spoke the word lights, it would cause 
Randall to fall asleep. The same was true for the gnomes of Tarandue. 
After testing this, I decided to sing the song of awakening to 
Randall, Herald of the Sky, to see what affect it would have upon 
Randall. In response, he screamed and fled the fields, running all the 
way to Rheydin aimlessly. Then, the world shifted, sending Randall 
back to his post within the fields of grain. Zeyrsi left and Athelea 
and I returned to the fields, to find a horrific sight: the Grim 
Reaper himself, attacking poor Randall. Paladin Giladrion Galawaryn 
came upon the scene as well, and attempted to aid Athelea and I in 
killing the Reaper. Unfortunately, such a thing cannot be done, for 
the Reaper was unaffected by all of our attacks from flame strikes to 
punches. The battle was a quick one, ending in Randalls demise. After 
his death, the wind seemed to die down and things began to settle, 
leaving us alone to contemplate what had just happened.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Caranduin-City in the Sands~
Few today are bold enough to visit the once great city of Caranduin.  
The Forsaken Lands that surround it are perilous enough by day, and by 
night even the most powerful fear to venture across it.  Close to the 
city, the desert heat plays tricks on the eyes; you go in the direc-
tion you believe the city lies, only to see it where you just were.  
If you are lucky, you will reach the city before nightfall, and you 
will be greeted by the eerie sight of a pristine city that is thou-
sands of years old, but so new looking that you swear you can almost 
see the citizens who once called the place home.
 
The first settlement on the site is believed to be the village of 
Anduin, a prosperous village on the old east-west trade road.  The 
village was dominated by a large temple where pilgrims came from 
throughout the kingdom to worship.  One day, traders came to Anduin 
only to find it abandoned.  They entered the temple, but were overcome 
by a powerful feeling of dread that sent them running for their lives. 
No one ever returned to Anduin, but the area was too fertile to remain 
empty for long.  In time, a new village sprang up in the same area 
called Seringale.  Trade was heavier at that time than it was in the 
days of Anduin, and Seringale soon grew to a small city.  To protect 
the trade road, the High King ordered the construction of a series of 
five mighty fortresses.  The fifth and smallest was built outside of 
Seringale and named Caer Anduin for the village that showed on some of 
the old maps.  Seringale became associated in people's mind with the 
fortress, and eventually the city became known as Caranduin.
 
What caused the disaster that turned the once thriving city into a 
ghost-ridden ruin is unknown, but theories abound.  Some say the an-
cient evil that wiped out Anduin returned, made even stronger by the 
greater number of lives that it took.  Some believe that a powerful 
necromancer made a pact with a dark power to trade the lives of the 
city for unholy power.  What is known is that one night, the streets 
were overrun with foul demons and reavers, draining the life of anyone 
they touched and turning them into wraiths.  A few lucky ones managed 
to escape the city, but many lives were lost that night.  Those who 
entered the city later found that the streets were overrun with crea-
tures of darkness, waiting for the unwary.  Indeed, the aura of death 
over the city was so powerful, that the once fertile land began to 
change into a wasteland.  Year by year the blight grew, until it 
turned most of the western lands into a desert, even swallowing the
Elven kingdom of Alfensham and reducing the forest around it to burned 
out stumps.
  
Today, Caranduin lies glistening in the hot desert sun, waiting for 
those who have the courage to brave the Blasted Lands and unlock its
mysteries.
 
                          A Map of Caranduin
 
                             North Gate
                   ---------------I---------------
                   I              I              I
                   I              I              I 
                   I--------------I--------------I
                   I            --I--            I
          West GateI------------I   I------------IEastern Gate
                   I  Park      --I--            I
                   I--------------I--------------I
                   I              I              I
                   I              I              I
                   ---------------I---------------
                             South Gate
~

Herald Mrenkus Demaar~
The Syndicate of Old,~
This essay shall speak upon the shadowy organization known to most as the
"Syndicate."  More specifically, it speaks of times past when this cabal was
just beginning.  Much sweat was lost during the gathering of information;
much time was used.  It is my hope that you will find this tome not only
entertaining, but informative as well...
 
Well known among everyone is the fact that were was once many different
"crime families."  How many there actually were, no one knows for sure.
The books that I was able to gather all pointed to the fact that they were
all at each others' throats.  Families would rise and fall so often that it
was nearly impossible to count them.  Not to mention that fact that they
liked to keep themselves hidden from public eyes, appearing only when it served
their purposes.
 
And then, "Justice" was formed.  The Royalty of Val Miran saw it necessary to
create such Enforcers and Sentinels due to the growing threat from the demons
and undead.  The families, seeing that their survival would now be in that much
more danger, banded together.
 
Like so, "Syndicate" was formed.
 
The first man to lead Syndicate is now little more than a legend, something
the Justice Arbiter might mention to scare his subordinates.  A drow shaman by
the name of Ivlizik, it was and still is claimed that he was the greatest of
those in his Guild.  He collected many bounties, and was feared by most, if not
all.  Alas, he met his end when he decided to challenge the God of Greed.
Details are sketchy, but it is known that the Immortal was not pleased at all.
Like so, Ivlizik met his end.
 
 
The next man (if he can be called that) to head this cabal of assassins went
by the name of Rhivaan.  An undead of the Dark Knight guild, he must have been
powerful as well: books and scrolls speak highly of him.  Unfortunately, I am
not able to provide you with a portrait of some kind; each drawing of him I
have found are different.
 
Depending on your point of view, his downfall could be seen as either a sad
or joyful story.  Betrayed by the ogre Gomanhor, one of his lieutenants, the
dark knight was thrown out of the cabal he once led.  He met his final end at
the hands of Gomanhor, who obviously became the next Leader.
 
But this ogre's reign was short-lived.  For reasons that I have not been able
to determine, he stepped aside to let Rhivaan's other lieutenant, Tetsunai,
to become his superior.  Was it fear?  Perhaps, but like I have already
written above, I do not know.  Fear is a likely, though not confirmed, reason,
since Tetsunai was just as bit as capable as his predecessors.
 
And this is where my search ended.  I spent many months attempting to find
out what befell Tetsunai.  Was he killed?  Was he imprisoned by Justice?
Did he simply retire and fade from everyone's eyes?  A ninja's comings and
goings are indeed hard to track; perhaps we will never know.
 
I hope you have enjoyed this short gathering of knowledge.  One piece of advice
before I end this essay: do not delve too deep into Syndicate's affairs.  They
don't like being seen, much less analyzed by outsiders.
 
--- Herald Mrenkus.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Shasarazade-The Elven Haven~
Long ago, when sentient life once more began to come together by clan
and kingdom, the elves lived a life of peace in the great forest of 
Danatha'nir, stretching from the Dragon's Teeth Mountains east to the 
Dragon Sea.  At the heart of the great forest was Alfinsham, the city 
of trees, built under, on, and around the mighty elder trees, coaxing
their wide branches into roads between the trees, all without damaging 
them.  As their numbers slowly grew, two other cities came into being, 
Ossinsham in the East, and Greginsham in the West.  The elves main-
tained patrols on the edges of the forest, so that no enemy was able 
to threaten the elves.  All was peaceful for the elven kingdom until
the time of the sundering, when the drow turned on their surface kin,
slaughtering all they could find.  The devastation was so thorough 
that nothing of the city of Ossinsham remained but rubble, long since
ground into dust.  The surviving elves fled toward the West, and new 
borders for the elven kingdom were established.  The elves gave the 
eastern region of Danatha'nir a new name, calling it Miden'nir, the 
bloody forest.
 
The southern edges of the Danatha'nir were already being affected by 
the growing desert known as the Forsaken Lands, and many of the elven 
refugees sought a new home.  Some travelled the to forests of the far 
west, and settled near the human city of Val Miran.  Others chose to
settle a valley that had been found by elven explorers some years 
before.  The elf king decided to build a new city on the hills above 
this valley, calling it Shasarazade, Stormhaven in the elven tongue.  
 
There were storms ahead, indeed, for the mountains north of the city 
had long been infested with goblins.  The goblin had fought many skir-
mishes with elven scouts, but when the elves began to build a city, 
the goblin king decided to destroy the elves once and for all.  Sum-
moning all the clans of the goblins that dwelled in the mountains 
to form an army, the goblin king led a surprise attack on the the 
elves under the cover of night.  They poured through the unfinished
walls of the city, seeking to end the elven encroachment before it
could gain a foothold.  The elves were great warriors, but the goblins 
were numerous and wily.  Many elven and goblin lives were lost, but in
the end, the elves managed to drive off their evil foe.  This turned 
out to be the first battle of a war that lasted nearly ten years, but 
in the end the elves defeated the goblin so soundly that to this day 
they are rarely seen in the area.  
 
The city of Shasarazade was finished and continued to grow, as more 
and more of the elves crossed the mountains to escape the growing 
blight of the Forsaken Lands.  The elf king declared the valley a 
duchy, and the ruler of Shasarazade was named Duke of the Valley.  
When Greginsham fell, Shasarazade truly became a haven in the storm, 
the last bastion of elvenkind.
~

Scribe Mamira Magniefa~
The Undead Kings~
There are five of them.  Their names are Xanthak the Lich King, Ramses The 
Damned, Lord Talex the Hand Of Death, the Archmage Wophat and Khalandar the 
Cursed. These five were the Elite of Thera from the time that Virigoth and 
Shadowspawn ruled the lands.  Wophat was given Caranduin to rule by Virigoth,
Ramses was in charge of the deserts, Xanthak was given a city called Myran 
Dammel, as well as Talex was involved with the underdark and Khalandar was the
King of S'handor. They were born of the Dark Scourges that spawned the undead 
armies from the Nexus. They would terrorize the mortals and dieties alike. It 
did not take long for Khalandar to convince the others to try to overpower Lord
Virigoth himself. There was a great war, and it might have been won by the 
Kings if they hadn't quarreled with each other. They turned on each other and
tore the lands apart with their great destructive powers.  Xanthac and Wophat
were particularly powerful and with their dark magics both caused their 
cities to sink into the earth and trapped them.  Virigoth used this opportunity
to seal them in forever.  Talex, Khalandar and Ramses were left over and they 
reveled in this change in tide.  They turned their attention back onto their 
vendetta against Virigoth.  With two of their number reduced, they were greatly
weakened in their abilities. 
 
The peoples that they terrorized before had grown stronger and went unnoticed 
by the Undead Kings.  Eventually, the mortals brought forth their own heros.
Athaekeetha, Raght, and Palison worked together and destroyed the remaining
Kings, one at a time. Upon each defeat, Virigoth cursed and entombed each in 
turn.  Ramses was the first to be defeated since his powers were the weakest. 
Talex was more difficult to conquore and required the whole of the Elven 
army to defeat.  To this day, a legion of Elves guard the doorway to his 
prison. Khalandar was then the only one left to reckon with.  Virigoth 
prevented the mortal heros from interfering to make sure his battle went 
undisturbed.  The skirmish was easily won and Virigoth spared his life, but
bestowed a curse upon Khalandar to never leave his city.
~

Herald Eldrigal Shrythara~
The Sundering of the Drow~
Long ago, when Danatha'nir still flourished and the elves were at the 
height of their glory, explorers would venture forth to see what won-
ders they could find in the outside world.  One such explorer found a 
great valley that came to be known as the Elven Valley, but that story 
is told elsewhere.  Our concern is with a young elf who decided to ex-
plore a cave she had found in eastern Danatha'nir.  She wound her way 
deep into the ground, until she found herself in a vast cavern.  At 
the far end of the cavern, she discovered a great slab of stone that 
looked like some sort of altar.
 
Suddenly, her lantern seemed to be struck from her hand and extingui-
shed.  She turned to flee back toward the tunnel by which she had 
entered the cavern, but found herself entangled in the silky strands 
of a great spider web.  Trapped, unable to move, she sensed the pre-
sence of someone or something approaching her from behind.  A soft 
voice whispered to her, promising secrets known to no other elf, mys-
teries never before revealed, if only the elven maiden would bow down 
and worship the being who spoke.  This struck a chord in the young 
elf, for she was one who had an overwhelming passion for knowledge, 
and little regard for anything else.  She submitted and, once freed 
from the web, bowed down to worship her new goddess:  Lloth.  She re-
turned to the surface as the new high priestess of Lloth.  She had 
been changed by the experience; her hair had become snowy white, and 
her skin dark, to match the darkness that had found its way into her 
heart.
 
She went among her fellow elves, preaching the message of Lloth, a 
message of survival of the strong and death to the weak.  Though most 
elves heard her words with disgust and loathing, she did find other 
kindred spirits, elves who had little concern for life and happiness, 
and only wanted the elven nation to rule over all.  The priestess took 
each new convert to the altar in the cavern, to bow before their new 
goddess and be changed as the priestess had been to mark their dedica-
tion to the cause of Lloth.  Eventually, the drow (as they now called 
themselves, derived from the elven word for chosen) began to build 
dwellings in the cavern, and established a city apart from the other 
elves, a city they named Xymerria.
 
Centuries passed, and the drow proved more fertile than their surface 
cousins, confirming in their own minds their natural superiority.  
Tensions between the two branches of the elven race grew steadily, un-
til one day an event occurred that forever separated the two.  Exactly 
what caused it depends on whom you ask.  The drow maintain that the 
elves intended an attack on Xymerria, and they decided to attack 
first.  Elves declare that no such act was intended, and that the drow 
attack was without provocation.  For whatever cause, the drow swarmed 
forth from their underground city and attacked the elven city of Os-
sinsham, razing it to the ground and slaughtering every elf they could 
catch in a massacre so terrible that the region has been known ever 
since as Miden'nir, the Bloody Forest.
 
The elves retreated to the western part of the forest, and set up new 
borders to ward against their dark cousins.  Eventually, the Forsaken 
Lands spread over Danatha'nir and formed a more formidable boundary 
between the two races.  The drow continued to expand their subterra-
nean kingdom, eventually establishing other cities deep beneath the 
earth.  Time has not softened the hatred between drow and elf; rather 
it has fanned the flames of hatred into a fierce flame that may some-
day destroy both races.
~

Academician Livana Arianwen~
The Concordat of Disharmony~
Though the forces of Discord and Tranquility are naturally at odds, 
the enmity between Moleran and Xuthravoth intensified when 
Moleran's pet rabbit was found to be missing and the Purveyor of 
Murder suspected to be responsible for its disappearance. The 
reunion between the Serenity Incarnate and his bunny proved to be 
anything but joyous, however.
 
A mass of people followed a man crawling desperately on his 
hands and knees towards Banor. Collapsed and prone on the forest 
floor, few could hardly recognize the weakened and disoriented 
form of the God of Peace. With great effort, Moleran warned all 
who gathered in concern and curiousity to leave and the air was 
charged with the approach of danger. Peril hopped into the area in 
the guise of the long-absent rabbit, obviously in a state of 
derangement. Perched upon Moleran's head, the hell-bunny grazed 
and nibbled upon Moleran's ear and index finger as though they 
were blades of grass. As all stood dumbfounded by the macabre 
spectacle, a mocking laughter preceded the arrival of the Silent 
Scream of Madness. Despite accusations, Xuthravoth asserted his 
innocence in the abduction and claimed that the rabbit sought him. 
Distracted by Xuthravoth's hateful presence, few noticed the 
complete consumption of the Serenity Incarnate and the mysterious 
departure of the wicked creature until a thunderous crashing noise 
surrounded the area, coming from all directions. The malevolent 
beast had returned to Xuthravoth in its true form: Kefuuqus the 
Insanity Incarnate, Enslaver of Souls. With a sense of grotesque 
fashion, the monster wore dismembered pieces of Moleran as 
clothing and a Soul Prison glowed ominously within his grasp. 
With the appearance of Kefuuqus, the forces of Discord were 
greatly heightened and an alliance of terror was forged by the 
Concordat of Disharmony between Xuthravoth and Kefuuqus.
 
Loyalty is foreign to beings of dissension, however. The Purveyor 
of Murder suspected betrayal, and the treachery of Kefuuqus first 
became apparent when the Insanity Incarnate urged the agents of 
Syndicate to battle against Xuthravoth's minions of Nexus. From 
that conflict came countless others and the heavens shook with 
their rivalry, until one day in the fury of their brawl they were 
thrown to mortal soil in Miruvhor where they would continue their 
struggle. 
~

Academician Livana Arianwen~
The Throne of Discord~
The sky split and an inferno hurled forth a burning form towards 
Miruvhor. Xuthravoth stood in the middle of a huge crater formed 
in the Central Commons of the dark city, battered from an intense 
brawl with his rival, Kefuuqus. The quarrel continued on mortal 
soil and the two Gods of Discord were locked in furious battle. 
Their blows shook the very land and their screams resonated across 
the world. It seemed that the two immortals would spend eternity 
in ferocious combat, until Xuthravoth raised his hands to the 
heavens, uttering arcane words. The sky darkened and a massive 
meteor expanded in sight until it crashed into Kefuuqus. The 
meteor rocked back and forth as the Enslaver of Souls struggled 
underneath. With even gravity at Xuthravoth's command, the legs 
and arms of the mortals gathered at the spectacle gained the weight 
of lead and the meteor edged deeper into the ground, further 
injuring the Purveyor of Murder's former ally. As a display of 
victory, Xuthravoth moved his hands into the rubble and grabbed 
the exposed horns of Kefuuqus, ripping them from the demon's 
head. However, Xuthravoth did not deliver the killing blow, yet 
mercy was far from his mind. As the ultimate embarrassment, 
Xuthravoth proclaimed that Kefuuqus would die at the hands of a 
mortal. 
 
The chase covered all corners of the world as scores of people 
sought to accomplish what no other mortal has done before: kill an 
immortal. However, the fallen god was far from weak and many 
died in their quest for glory. As Kefuuqus escaped the grasp of the 
mob on his trail, the air shook with Xuthravoth's frustration. It 
seemed that Kefuuqus would escape the sentence set by the Silent 
Scream of Madness had it not been for an artist of death: an 
invoker by the name of Iyorvin. 
 
In Drkshtyre Wood, Kefuuqus encountered a tempest of fire and 
fled to the Dragon's Teeth Mountains with the artist in pursuit. In 
the mountains, two others battled the ruined deity until a dance 
with the element of ice called forth by Iyorvin pushed the other 
opponents to the brink of death. Eventually, Kefuuqus was 
defeated in the midst of the morbid performance of elements and a 
myriad of souls enslaved by the sadistic god was freed from the 
Soul Prison, including Moleran. With the death of a mighty god, 
Iyorvin experienced the sensation of creating thousands of 
masterpieces at once, all forming into a single ultimate creation. As 
Xuthravoth promised, Iyorvin's name will forever echo within this 
realm and all others as the Eldritch Godslayer. 
~

Atlas of Aabahran~ 15
Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Shasarazade~
______________________________________________________
I                                                      I
I     Unicorn Glade            Temple of Yaeger        I
I  Elven------------------Main--------I                I
I  Valley        [H]      Gate     [M]I[B]             I
I                                  [R]I[G]             I
I                                  [A]I[W]      Tower  I
I                    [S][P]           I           I    I
I           Temple-----------------Palace----------    I
I                   I   [L]           I                I
I                 South           (Wg)I(Pg)            I
I                 Gate            (Ig)I(Rg)            I
I                                 (Hg)I(Tg)            I
I                                 (Bg)------Library    I
I                                    (Cg)              I
I                                                      I
I                         Legend                       I
I           Shops                       Guilds         I
I       [A]-Armory               (Bg)-Battlemage Guild I
I       [B]-Blacksmith           (Cg)-Cleric Guild     I
I       [G]-Grocer               (Hg)-Healer Guild     I
I       [H]-Herbalist            (Ig)-Invoker Guild    I
I       [L]-Map Shop             (Pg)-Paladin Guild    I
I       [M]-Magic Shop           (Rg)-Ranger Guild     I
I       [P]-Pet Shop             (Tg)-Thief Guild      I
I       [R]-Restaurant           (Wg)-Warrior Guild    I
I       [S]-Stables                                    I
I       [W]-Weapons                                    I
I______________________________________________________I
                                  Map not to scale       
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Falen Dara~
______________________________________________________________
IFALEN DARA                                                    I
I                             Chapel                           I
I                     x x x x x x x x x x x x                  I
I                      [L]      x     x     x                  I
I                         Palacex[D]  x     x                  I
I                    Temple     x     x[G]  [H]                I
I                    Square   x x x   x[P][M]                  I
I           West Gate x x x x x Q x x x x x x East Gate        I
I       (Slaughter   (W)      x x x    [T]                     I 
I          House)               x                              I
I                          [S]  x[B]     [C]                   I
I                       x x x x x x x x x x x                  I
I                           x   x                              I
I        Ishtar River===========x=========                     I
I                          South Gate                          I
I                                                              I
I                            Legend                            I 
I [B] Blacksmith                   Q Market Square             I
I [C] Cassandra's Catch of the Day   NE The Vegetable Stand    I
I [D] Dancing Daemon Inn                The Butchery           I
I [G] Museum of the Greater Gods     SE The Armory             I
I [H] Hidden Glade                      Igor's Implements      I
I [L] City Hall                               of Destruction   I
I [M] Braheem's Magic Shop           SW The Bread Stand        I
I [P] Witches Brew                      General Store          I
I                                    NW The Slave Quarter      I
I     Guilds                            The Stich and Seam     I
I (W) Warrior's Guild             [S] Shipwright               I
I [D] Bard's Guild                [T] Mercenary's Guild        I
I______________________________________________________________I 
~

Historian Airen Mirelle~
Map of Solace~
-=SOLACE=-                                                                                                                               
*__*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*
|                                                      |
*                           _______________            *
|                           |Administration|           |
*           S   S   S   S   |____          |           *
|           |___|___|___|____|__| Office   |           |
*           |   |   |   |    |  |__________|           *
|           S   S   S   S    |                         |
*                            |                         *
|         ___________________|_________________        |
*         |  |    |    |     |     |    |      |       *
|         |  S    H    H     |     H    S      |       |
*         |                S-|                 |       *
|         |                  |                 |       |
*         |       S        S-|--Janders        |       *
|         |_______|__________|______|__________|       |
*                                                      *
|                                                      |
*__*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*___*
KEY:
S- Shop
H- House
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Xymerria~
___________________________________________________________________
[ XYMERRIA                                                          ]
[                                   {G}                             ]
[                        [m]        {L}        [t]                  ]
[                     [b]------------I------------[l]               ]
[                        [a]         I{R}      [r]                  ]  
[                                 {H}I                              ]
[                        (I)(S)(M)(C)I(T)(N)(W)(D)                  ]
[  Underdark-Western Gate------------I------------Eastern Gate      ]
[                              (P)   I      (J)                     ]
[                                    I{B}                           ]
[                                    I                              ]
[                                    I                              ]
[                                    I                              ]
[                           ---------I---------                     ]
[                            Grand South Gate                       ]
[                                    I                              ]
[                              To Shadow Grove                      ]
[                                                                   ]
[                                  Legend                           ]
[              Shops                             Guilds             ]
[    [a]The Alchemy Shop                (C)Guild of Clerics         ]
[    [b]The Butcher                     (D)Guild of Dark Knights    ]
[    [l]The Blade                       (I)Guild of Invokers        ]
[    [m]The Map Store                   (J)Guild of Ninjas          ]
[    [r]The Armory                      (M)Guild of Battlemages     ]
[    [t]The Tanners                     (N)Guild of Necromancers    ]
[                                       (P)Guild of Psions          ]
[        Sights & Services              (S)Guild of Shamans         ]
[    {B}Bank                            (T)Guild of Thieves         ]
[    {G}Grand Palace of Do'Rekdin       (W)Guild of Warriors        ]
[    {H}Hunter's Headquarters                                       ]
[    {L}The Temple (Up)                                             ]
[    {R}The Training Office                                         ]
[___________________________________________________________________]
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Gal Ranidon~
_________________________________________________________________
[ GAL RANIDON                                                     ]
[                         {B}   {M}                               ]
[                    *  *  *  *  *  *  *  * (E)                   ] 
[                    * [d]                   *                    ]
[                 *  *                       *  *                 ]
[                 *    [p]                      *                 ]
[              *  *                             *  *              ]
[              *    [m]            (W)             *              ]
[ Western Gate *  *  *  *  *  * (S) *  *  *  *  *  * Eastern Gate ]
[              *    [s]      {G}                   *              ]
[              *    (T)                            *              ]
[              *  *  *                       *  *  * [w]          ]
[                    *                       *                    ]
[                    *  *  *           *  *  *                    ]
[                   [i]    *           *                          ]
[                          *  *  *  *  *                          ]
[                                *    (C)                         ]
[                          Southern Gate                          ] 
[                                *                                ]
[                           To Underdark                          ]
[                                                                 ]
[                              Legend                             ]
[        Sights & Services                     Shops              ]
[    {B}Bank                        [d]Tyuazin's Dancing Hall     ] 
[    {G}Ghraaak's Training Room     [i]Ghelden's Inventions       ]
[    {M}Mayor's Home                [m]Khaleenin's Meats          ]
[                                   [p]Bhodann's Alchemy Shoppe   ] 
[            Guilds                 [s]Jowakidin's Slaves         ]
[    (C)Clerics Guild               [w]Yueklar's Flawless Weapons ]
[    (E)Berserkers Guild                                          ]
[    (S)Temple (up); Shamans Guild                                ]
[    (T)Thieves Guild                                             ]
[    (W)Warriors Guild                                            ]
[_________________________________________________________________]
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of the Illithid Hive~
______________________________________________________________
| THE ILLITHID HIVE                                            |
|                         {T} *                                |
|                             *  *                             |
|                                * {H)                         |
|                      {C}   [s] * [c]   {T}                   | 
|                       *  *  *  *  *  *  *                    |
|                      (P)   [f] * [g]   (N)                   |
|                                *                             | 
|                                *  *  *                       |
|                                *    {N}                      |
|                        Entrance to Hive                      |
|                                *                             |
|                                *  *                          |
|                                   *                          |
|                                *  *                          | 
|                                *                             |
|                                *                             |
|                            To Sewers                         |
|                                                              | 
|                             Legend                           |
|         Shops                       Sights & Services        |
| [c]The Chiasma (supplies)   {B}The Choroid Fissure           |
| [f]The Gyri (food)          {C}The Cerebral Cortex (temple)  |
| [g]The Ganglia (clothes)    {H}Hunter Bookkeeper             |
| [s]The Sulci (potions)      {L}Larval Chamber                |
|                             {T}The Caudal Nucleus (trainer)  | 
|         Guilds                                               |
| (N)The Necromatic Hemisphere                                 |
| (P)The Psionic Hemisphere                                    |
|______________________________________________________________|
~

Scribe Mrenkus Demaar~
Map of the Ogre City, Marak~
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%   MAP    (not drawn to scale)   %    __________                   % 
%  =====                          %   /_#__ DOWN/  Tavern 2nd Floor.%
%                                 %       /    /__________          %
% North                           %      /         Zerker/          %
%   ^        Throne of Bone       %     /          Guild/           %
%   |               |             %    /     __________/            %
% ==+==             |             %   /War. /                       %
%   |         #  #  |  #  #       %  /Guild/                        %
%   |      -------ROYAL-------    % /_____/       Tavern 1st Floor. %
%         #|  #  #  #  #  #  I#   %     ______________              %
%          O                 N    %    /$   Bar    UP/              %
%         #G                 F#   %   /             /               %
%          R                 E    %  /             /                %
%         #O                 R#   % /             /                 %
%          C                 I    %/_____   _____/                  %
%         #|-----GRANITE-----S#   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%                   |                   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%                   |                   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%                   |                   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
% TEMPLE  TAVERN    |                   % LEGEND:                   %
%   |       |       |                   % =======                   %
%   |       |     S P N    #     #      % #  --> Private Residence  %
%[----TINGAROL----A W W----FIRIDON----] % P  --> Potions and Pills  %
%                 T F M    #  |  #      % F  --> Food               %
%                   |         |         % W  --> Weapons            %
%                   |                   % A  --> Armor              %
%                   D                   % T  --> Trainer            %
%                   A                   % S  --> Scrolls            %
%                   R---Stables         % N  --> Wands and Staves   %
%                   N                   % M  --> Mercenaries        %
%                   A                   %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
%                   K                   %  Scribed on the           %
%                   |                   %  Day of the Great Gods,   %
%                   |                   %  19th of the Month of     %
%          [To the Great Chasm]         %  the Old Forces.          %
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Ofcol~
________________________________________________
|OFCOL                                           |
|                                                | 
|      Justice Headquarters                      |
|      ----------|----------                     |
|                |                               | 
|                |                               |
|                |                               |
|                |----------The Golden Citadel   |
|             [b]|[l]                            | 
|             [p]|[m]                            |
|             [a]|[f]                            |
|         Fields-|--------{S}                    |
|             [s]|[i]    |                       |
|                |---   Farm                     | 
|                | {T}                           |
|            Drkshtyre                           |
|                                                |
|                    Legend                      |
|                                                |
|                     Shops                      |
|           [a]Nyles' House of Ales              |
|           [b]Blacksmith                        |
|           [f]Farmer's Market                   |
|           [i]The Local Inn                     |
|           [l]Leather Shop                      |
|           [m]Meat Store                        |
|           [p]Pawn Shop                         |
|           [s]Luxan's Mixed Shop                | 
|                                                |
|               Sights & Services                |   
|           {S}The Slaughterhouse                |
|           {T}Future Trainers                   | 
|________________________________________________|
 
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Miruvhor~
_________________________________________________________________
|MIRUVHOR                                                         |
|                 Northern Drawbridge                             |
|             -------------|----------------                      |
|             |  [a]|[ ]  {G}  {F}|[e]{ }  |                      |
|             |  [r]|[ ]  {A}     |        |       --------       |
|             |     |   ---|---   |        |[c]{M} |              |
|Western Gate-|-----|--{D}-@--|---|--------|-------|------- Docks |
|             |{S}  |   --{P}--[ ]|[f]     |       |              |
|             |  {G}|          [ ]|[s]     |       |-------       |
|             |     |          [ ]|    [t] |       |              |
|             ------------------------------       |              |
|                {T}{H}(T) |                       --{L}          |
|                 Southern Drawbridge                             | 
|  ______________________________                                 |
| |                              |            Legend              | 
| |      {G}Guild Row            |    @ Fountain                  |
| |    -------|-------           |             Shops              |
| |    |(C)(I)|(M)(K)|(J)        |   [a]Alchemist's Shop          |  
| |    |(S)   |(N)(D)|(R)        |   [c]Crow's Nest Tavern        | 
| |               (W)|(B)        |   [e]Eldritch Emporium         |
| |                              |   [f]Fisherman's Shanty        |
| | (B)Guildhall of Berserkers   |   [r]Armory                    |
| | (C)Guildhall of Clerics      |   [s]Supplies                  |
| | (D)Guildhall of Dark Knights |   [t]Slate's Tattoo Parlor     |
| | (I)Guildhall of Invokers     |   [ ]Additional Shops          | 
| | (J)Guildhall of Ninjas       |                                | 
| | (K)Guildhall of Monks        |        Sights & Services       | 
| | (M)Guildhall of Battlemages  |   {A}Altar of Sirens (Temple)  |
| | (N)Guildhall of Necromancers |   {D}Trainer                   |
| | (R)Guildhall of Rangers      |   {F}Hezel's Financing (Bank)  |
| | (S)Guildhall of Shamans      |   {G}City Gate                 |
| | (W)Guildhall of Warriors     |   {H}Decobru House             |
| |______________________________|   {L}Lighthouse                |
|                                    {M}Harbormaster's Office     |
|          Other Guilds              {P}Palace (up)               |
|  (T)Hall of Conspiracy (Thieves)   {S}Stables                   |
|                                    {T}The Tannery               |
|                                    { }                          |
|_________________________________________________________________|
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Tarandue~
______________________________________________________ 
|TARANDUE                                              | 
|                                             Rheydin  |
|                                                |     |
|                       To the Dwarven Kingdom---|     |
|                                                |     |    
|                                   {T}       ----{G}  |
|                       (P)(I)(M){C} | {H}{H} |        |
|                  {H}---------------@--------|{H}     |
|                     | (T)(R)(W){B} | {H}    |        |
|                  ----           [a]|[b]     |        |
|                  | {H}            [m]       |        |
|                 --                          |        |
|    Fields   {R}--                       The Plains   |
|                 |                                    |
|              Fields                                  |
|                                                      |
|                         Legend                       |
|         Guilds                      Shops            |
|   (I)Invoker's Guild          [a]Alchemist           |
|   (M)Battlemage's Guild       [b]Butcher             |
|   (P)Psionicist's Guild       [m]Mercantile          |
|   (R)Ranger's Guild                                  |
|   (T)Thief's Guild            Sights & Services      |
|   (W)Warrior's Guild        {B}Brambusworks          | 
|                             {C}Chief Gnome's House   |
|                             {G}Guardshack            |
|    @ Well                   {H}House                 | 
|                             {R}Trainer               |
|                             {T}Temple                |
|______________________________________________________|
~

Herald Airen Denetheros~
Year Round Constellations~
____/\___                
                          ____/         \____    
                    _____/                   \_____   
                   /                               \     
                  /                                 \         
             ____/                                   \____  
            /                               *  *          \      
     ______/                              *    *  *        \_______       
    /                                    *  *       *              \      
   |        * * *                              *     *              |
   |      *                             *   *  *     *              |
   |                                        The Falls               |
   |              *                                                 |
   |          *                                                     |
   |         * *                  *                                 |
   |                            *                                   |
   |      The Hand            *                                     |
   |                        *  The Bolt                             |
   |                      *                      *  *               |
   |                                           *      *             |
   |                                             *  *               |
   |                                                                |
   |               *                              *                 |
   |             *    *                                             |
   |                 *                          * *  *              |
   |               *   *                                            |
   |            *        *    *               The Chalice           |
   |                       *                                        |
   |                     *                                          |
   |                   *                                            |
   |            The Hound                                           |
   \______                                                    ______/  
          \                                                  /               
           \____                                        ____/
                \                                      /
                 \                                    /
                  \_____                        _____/ 
                        \____              ____/  
                             \_____  _____/ 
                                   \/ 
 
Notes:
According to scholars, the Falls symbolizes the Tears of Compassion. When Lady 
Yeralon, the Mother of Compassion, was brutally destroyed by Bryntryst the Lord 
of Chaos, Her tears trickled down from the Heavens onto Theran soil. Some say 
that they fell into a Holy Chalice which, when drunk, shall grant Immortality.
Others say that once the Tears touched the earth, they sprouted into a
beautiful Rose, symbolizing Yeralon's last message to Thera.
 
Scholars still have yet to identify the Immortal whose Hand is shown in the 
night skies. Some believe it is a Deity of the Light, reaching for the bolt 
with which to smite Mina, the Hound of Chaos in defense of Yeralon as 
symbolized in the Chalice.  Others say it is Lord Bryntryst Himself, assailing 
Yeralon along side the Chaos Hound.
~

Herald Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of the Shire~
_________________________________________
|THE SHIRE                                | 
|         {b}                             |
|          |                              | 
|       {f}|{s}                {t}        |
|          |[G]                 |         |
|          |          [S]   [A] |         |
|   {h}-------------------------|{s}      |
|      {w}[D]{s} |          {k} |         |
|                | (R)(C)(T)(W) |         |
|                |  ------------|{g}      |
|                |-{v}          |         |
|                |             [I]        |
|             Haon Dor                    |
|                                         |
|                 Legend                  | 
|                                         |
|                  Shops                  | 
|           [A] House of Arms             |
|           [D] Grocer's Delight          |
|           [G] Green Dragon              |
|           [I] The Ivy Bush              |
|           [S] General Store             |
|                                         | 
|            Sights & Services            |
|           {b} Bag End                   |
|           {f} Farm                      |
|           {g} Training Ground           |
|           {h} Took Hill                 |  
|           {k} Kid'n Keep                |
|           {s} Shirriff Post             | 
|           {t} Temple                    |
|           {v} Val Miran Bathhouse       |
|           {w} Watermill                 |
|                                         |
|                  Guilds                 |
|           (C) Cleric's Guild            |
|           (R) Ranger's Guild            |
|           (T) Thief's Guild             |
|           (W) Warrior's Guild           |
|_________________________________________|
~

Herald Airen Denetheros~
Summer Constellations~
____/\___
                          ____/         \____    
                    _____/                   \_____   
                   /                               \     
                  /                                 \         
             ____/                                   \____         
            /                                             \      
     ______/           *                      *   *        \_______  
    /                                     *                         \
   |                *                  *                            |
   |              *                  *                              |
   |            *   *  * *         *                                |
   |                 * *                                            |
   |                  * * *      *                                  |
   |                 *                      * *                     |
   |              * *           *             *                     |
   |            *    *                   * * * *                    |
   |                 *         *              * *                   |
   |                *                     * *   *                   |
   |          The Warrior      *               *                    |
   |                                          * *  * *              |
   |                            *                                   |
   |                             *           The Vagabond           |
   |              *                                                 |
   |                                *                               |
   |                                   *                            |
   |          *       *                  *                          |
   |                                         *                      |
   |                                               *                |
   |              *                    The Greater Crescent         |
   |         The Gateway                                            |
   \______                                                    ______/   
          \                                                  /    
           \____                                        ____/ 
                \                                      /
                 \                                    /
                  \_____                        _____/   
                        \____              ____/  
                             \_____  _____/ 
                                   \/
 
Notes: 
Scholars agree, the two constellations to the east and west of the 
Greater Crescent are representatives of the main characters in the 
fable "The Warrior and the Vagabond". 
 
In ages past, a boisterous young warrior walked down the fair streets 
of Rheydin, having just come to the city in search of his fortune. 
While crossing the Western Commons, the Warrior came across a Vagabond 
kneeling in his path. 
"Move, beggar," the Warrior said. "Lest I behead you with my sword."
"Be wary, good stranger," the Vagabond replied. "For malice shall be 
the fall of all men." At hearing this, the Warrior kicked the Vagabond 
deftly in the stomach and strode past.
Several days later, the Warrior was beset by a gang of Syndicate and 
left with barely anything of worth. Swiftly, the Warrior sought out the 
Patriarch of Rheydin and begged that he aid him in having his things 
returned to him.
 
"Ah," the Patriarch smiled. "I see that you are he that kicked me those 
days ago when I went amongst the people in the guise of a vagabond. 
Perhaps now you understand the meaning of my words." And the Patriarch 
strode away.
 
The Gateway is the formation of four stars: Xemna, Peytri, Lorala, and 
Seirabi. It is at this time of year when the stars are closest to 
Thera, and thus emanate a great aura that seemingly looks like a 
diamond shaped gateway. Central Theran folklore claims it is the Gate 
from which Avariel descended to Thera, while those further East claim 
it is a portal that leads to the plane of the Nameless.
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of Drkshtyre Forest~
_______________________________________________
|DRKSHTYRE FOREST                               |
|          _________                            |
|         |_______  |                           |
|                 | |                           | 
|                 | |_                          |
|                 |   |                         |
|                 | | |                         |
|                 |_| |_____                    |
|                   |_____  |                   | 
|                         | |__                 |
|                         |__  |_______         |
|                           _|  _____  |        |
|                          |  _  |___| |        |
|                    ______| | |_______|        |
|                   |  ____  |                  |
|                ___| |    | |        Val Miran |
|               |  _  |    | |___________| |    |
|               | | | |    |____   ________|    |
|               | | | |         | |  _          |
|               | | | |_________| |_| |_        |
|               | |_|___________   ___  |       |
|               |______  |______| |   |_|       |
|                ___|  ____________Escimir      |
|               |  ___|             E'gal       |
|            ___| |                             |
|        ___|  ___|                             | 
|       |  ___|                                 |
|       | |                                     |
|      _| |                                     |
| Ofcol___|                                     |
|  (up)                                         | 
|_______________________________________________|
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Map of the Elven Valley~
_____________________________________________
|THE ELVEN VALLEY                             |
|                         ___                 |
|                       _|  _to Shasarazade   |
|                      |  _|                  |
|                      | |                    |
|                      | |___                 |  
|                      |  _  |                |       
|                     _| |_| |_               |
|                    |  _   _  |              |
|                    | | | | | |              |
|                   _| | | | | |___           |
|                 _|  _| | | |___  |          |
|                |   |   | |    _| |          |
|                | | |___| |   |  _|          |
|                | |  ___ @|   | |___         |
|             ___| | |   | |   |___  |        |
|           _|  ___| |   | |___    | |        |
|          |  _|   | |   |___  |   | |_       |
|     The  | |     | |_____  | |   |_  |      |
|  Northern__|     |_____  | | |    _| |      |
|    Road                | |_| |_  |  _|      |
|                        |_____  |_| |        |
|                              |_____|        |
| @ Scout Camp                                |
|_____________________________________________|
~

Academy Texts~ 7
Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
A Primer for New Healers~
The powers granted by the healer's guild are among the most complex
and powerful in the land.  Often new healers need the mentoring of
more experienced members of the guild to help them to learn their
powers.  With this in mind, I have decided to present a few tips for
new healers, to help them through the trying early days in the guild.
In the writing of this tome, I sought the advice of several healers,
and I gratefully thank them for their help.
 
1. Easily the most important piece of advice is maintain your defenses.
   Master your defensive skills, and keep you defensive spells up at
   all times, especially Sanctuary, Protection, Fly, Detect Invisible,
   and Protective Shield/Divine Retribution/Barrier.
2. Learn the lands.  This is good advice for anyone, but especially
   for healers.  It will allow you to find creatures in any given area
   to use as targets for the gate spell, allow you to quickly locate
   a body that needs resurrection, and allow you to find a safe place
   to rest after the resurrection.
3. When preparing to resurrect a corpse, wear as many luck-giving
   items as you can, and be sure to have prayer and accession cast on
   yourself as well.  Depending on your faith, bless might be wise as
   well.
4. After a resurrection, you will be weakened for a time.  You should
   find a safe place to recover.  This should be an area that is out
   of the way, preferably difficult to reach.  It can also be an area
   that is not visited often by those of your current rank.  Most ex-
   perienced healers will be willing to give you one or two places you
   can go, but if you are wise you will have five or six such places,
   and alternate them each time.  Never remain in your resting place
   longer than necessary.
5. Locate object can be a very useful spell.  Occasionally locating
   corpses will sometimes allow you to reach a fallen person even be-
   fore they ask for your aid.  It can also let you know where there
   is activity in the land, and can sometimes give warning when some-
   one is near your resting place.  It can allow you to locate items
   to wear, and will sometimes even give you names of people you can
   gate to.
6. Seek items that add to your mental power, health, and luck, in
   addition to providing protection from physical attack.
7. Always carry some food on you, preferably milk or alcohol.  At
   times a resurrection, or series of resurrections, can leave you so
   weak that you can't even lift food.  If there is no one around to
   feed you, starvation will slow the recovery process.
 
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Exploring the Lands-A Primer~
From the Academy Class of Alysa Bramble
 
When one first sets out to become an adventurer, he or she is confron-
ted with many new and unusual places and things.  Some of these may be 
dangerous, and it is wise to learn ones way around the land in order to 
be better prepared.  The most experienced adventurers can find their 
way from one end of the land to the other while blind.  
 
Next, learn the areas around the cities.  These are usually the safest 
for those just setting out in the world for the first time.  By look-
ing at the sky, you can usually get an idea of what area you are in, 
and the 'areas' scroll will let you know whether the area you are in 
is safe for you.  As you move through an area, scan constantly so that 
you can be prepared before you run into something that might want to 
kill you.  When you come up against some new creature, you should al-
ways remember to 'consider' them to determine their strength relative 
to yours, as well as whether they might be friendly or hostile to you. 
Some creatures are so hostile as to attack you on sight, and you 
should be prepared to flee if things don't go your way.  When you do 
flee a battle, keep moving until you are well away from your attacker. 
Many creatures will seek to track you down to finish you off.  If you 
run into something too strong for you to handle on your own, you might 
want to consider gathering a group of other adventurers and taking it 
on together.
 
Here is a list of useful equipment you should remember to have with 
you at all times while exploring:
 
A light source-Some last for only a short time, so you should always 
     carry spares so that when they start to flicker you can prepare 
     to replace them.
Food & water-Almost all solid food spoils after a time, but some lasts 
     longer than others.  Try to find food that lasts a long time.  
     You can also supplement your larder by eating the body parts of 
     creatures you kill.  Water containers also come in different 
     sizes, and you should always remember to fill them when you come 
     on a spring or fountain.  Milk and alcohol will provide both food 
     and drink, and last longer than other types of food.
Potions of recall-So you can get home if you become hopelessly lost.  
     Always carry more than one, since some places are cursed so that 
     you cannot recall from there.
Scrolls of identify-For those who can read scrolls, but can't cast 
     spells to identify items, these allow you to learn the properties 
     of an item more accurately than any information that may be 
     available in the ancient 'lore.'  Even without these scrolls, you 
     can learn a little merely by seeking to 'examine' the item in 
     question.
As you learn the lands, you may find other items that will be useful.  
That is all part of learning your way around, and you are encouraged 
to learn all you can about the world around you.  You are also encou-
raged to join the Academy, where you may gain additional instruction 
and help in learning your way around.

~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Techniques of Training~
It goes without saying that the better a skill, spell or song is 
known, the more reliable it is, so mastering your abilities will aid 
you greatly in surviving in these harsh lands.  Some feel that an 
intense effort to train is of little value, since you will master them 
in time through everyday use.  Others feel it is important to spend a 
great deal of time training in controlled conditions in the hopes of 
mastering their abilities sooner.  It is for this second group that 
this tome is written.
 
Equipment
A basic principle of skills training is that the long a fight lasts, 
   the more you are likely to learn.
Remove everything that enhances your accuracy and damage. 
Use weapons that do a minimum amount of damage, such as practice 
   weapons.  If you have lost your practice weapon, or wish to prac-
   tice a different weapon, you may buy new ones at Igor's in Falen 
   Dara.  However, there are less expensive alternate weapons you can 
   find that are just as good for use in practicing.
Find items that actually reduce your accuracy and damage, usually by 
   reducing your strength.
IMPORTANT:  Always pay attention to your surroundings.  There are 
weak, cowardly individuals who know that people who train intention-
ally weaken themselves, and will not hesitate to get a cheap kill.  
 
Defenses
The best way to train your defensive skills is to fight several oppo-
   nents at the same time one time, preferably ones that are hard to 
   hit and do little damage.  The most popular place to do this is the 
   fields near Tarandue, however there are several other places where 
   you can find these training conditions that are not as well known.
If you wish to master your defenses quickly, avoid learning how to 
   dodge until you have mastered your other abilities.  You can con-
   trol the whether other defenses come into play by the gear that you 
   wear (a shield is required for shield block, a weapon for parry, 
   etc.), but the ability to dodge cannot be canceled once it is 
   learned.
It is also better to master learning how to parry with the off hand 
   before you learn how to parry with your primary hand.  This applies 
   to both the 'dual parry' skill and the monk's 'second parry'.  Dual 
   parry will also be enhanced by using a weapon you are not familiar 
   with in your primary hand.
 
Offenses
Offensive skills are best trained by fighting creature that are easy 
   to hit, take a lot of damage to kill, and do little damage in re-
   turn.  Many make the mistake of training offenses in the same place 
   they train defenses, but this is not a good idea since you learn 
   nothing about weapons by missing.
Certain offensive abilities are a little more difficult to train in 
   this way, such as disarm and shield disarm.  A better way to train 
   these is to find a sparring partner who also needs the training.  
   It is best to seek an out of the way place for this where you are 
   not likely to be attacked.
 
Spells/Songs
Obviously the best way to train these abilities are to cast/sing them, 
   over and over again.  Even if the ability is one that cannot affect 
   its target more than once, as long as the energy is expended, the 
   spell/song is cast/sung and you have a chance to learn from it.  
   Those that cause damage are best used against creatures that have 
   some resistance to them, since the principle that the longer the 
   fight the more you are likely to learn still applies.
One spell that is important to master but difficult to train safely is 
   the spell 'teleport'.  To train this spell safely, one should find 
   an area that is shielded to prevent teleporting into or out of that 
   area.  These are scattered throughout the land, but all the guild 
   houses in Rheydin are so warded.
 
Those that wish further information on training techniques should join
   the Academy, where instruction on training for each of the indivi-
   dual guilds is available.
~

Scribe Synduil Qael~
Clerics-Defense-Vol.1~
The path of the cleric is truly amazing and requires exceptional
dedication and knowledge of the profession.  Many have perished due to their
inability to understand and properly utilize the divinations given to them
by Gods.  A series of primers will teach the unwary a few tricks.  A lot of
this will be obvious to many, but a few uninducted may find this truly
helpful, and at times life saving.  

The first tome in this series will concentrate on cleric's truly amazing
DEFENSIVE capacities.  The writing will consist of a few tips (never
intended to be exhaustive) that will help a young cleric on his or her path
to reaching the title of the Will of Gods.  

CLERICS - DEFENSE - VOLUME 1

Keep in mind, that clerics are truly defensive.  Thus, they must know how to
use their defenses to their advantage.  I would recommend running from many
(but not all) battles until you reach the highest title in your guild Then
you can truly explore your full potential.  This primer examines clerics'
protective divinations in some detail:

1.  The divinations of armor.  "Armor," "Shield," "Stone Skin" are your
friends.  Combined with swiftness of your legs and a few pieces of reliable
equipment, you will become very difficult to hit and will escape battle
before it is too late.  These divinations are very inexpensive on your mind
and should be kept up at all times.  

2.  Protective shield: to do or not to do?  "Protective shield" can be quite
expensive and taxing, particularly in lower ranks.  Unless you are fighting
a creature that you know will bash or you have a particularly nasty being
after you, "protective shield" needs not to be divined.  In higher ranks,
when "protective shield" lasts for hours, it is absolutely a must.  

3.  Protection and sanctuary.  "Protection" must be kept on at all times. 
It is cheap to divine and lasts a long time.  "Sanctuary," in lower ranks
must be used on the same principles as protective shield: when you are
taking blows, when someone is after you, or when you sense danger.  In
higher ranks, when "sanctuary" lasts for hours and costs only a small
portion of your total mental energy, it is a absolutely a must.  

4.  Spell turning.  "Spell turning" is by far the greatest ability given by
Gods to clerics.  It allows to turn a spell away from the cleric and onto
the caster/communer.  It will protect you from shamans and mages and will
make it virtually impossible (emphasis on virtually) to land maledictions
upon you.  The divination is expensive and will not last a while.  You must
use it situationally.  However, keep in mind that if you have sanctuary,
protective shield, and spell turning, you can sleep safely in the middle of
the city, fearing little of what will hurt you.  

5.  Calm.  "Calm" is worth mastering.  It will save you from many aggressive
creatures and will stop a fight immediately (unless the creature resists
it).  Master it.  But most importantly, do not forget you have it in your
arsenal.  

6.  Isolate.  "Isolate" is perfect protection against necromancers first,
rangers second, and dark-knights third.  Flee, come back, commune isolation
to split their creatures from the master and word back to your hometown.  It
will take them a while to gather their resources to attack you again.  

7.  Word of recall.  "Word of recall" should be mastered.  It will save your
life when it works and it will kill you when you lose your concentration. 
Flee first.  Word later.  I cannot emphasize it enough.  Flee first, word
later.  

8.  Portal.  A.  Find a place that no one knows and that is far from major
cities.  I would recommend some place that requires the opening of many
doors, a place near another place from which you cannot be summoned, a place
away from your recall location.  B.  Set a marker.  C.  Remember that portal
works even though you are cursed.  D.  Master it.  If I were to pick which
one to master between word and portal, portal would be my choice.  

9.  Pass door.  Use "pass door" defensively in places with many closed or
locked doors.  That way you can flee without having to open them.  

10.  BIGGEST DEFENSIVE WEAKNESS.  Unfortunately, and for a good reason,
clerics cannot make themselves fly.  Thus, trip becomes the biggest
defensive weakness of clerics.  If you have protective shield on, you will
not get bashed or grappled or bodyslamed.  But you will still get tripped. 


(to be continued in Vol 2) 
~

Scribe Synduil Qael~
Clerics-Defense-Vol.2~
This is the second tome in the series that takes a closer look at the 
guild of clerics.  This particular volume continues discussing 
cleric's truly amazing DEFENSIVE capacities.  The writing (similar to 
Vol. 1) consists of a few tips (never intended to be exhaustive) that 
will help a young cleric on his or her path to reaching the title of 
the Will of Gods.
 
CLERICS - DEFENSE - VOLUME 2
 
Aside from many useful supplications and divinations in their arsenal, 
clerics possess quite a few physical abilities that must be 
understood, trained, and mastered.
 
1.  Shield block.  Master this ability as soon as you get it.  For a 
good portion of the rank 20s, this will be your only defense.  Try to
find a shield that will allow this ability to go beyond mastery.
 
2.  Parry.  Although many would disagree, I would wait to master this 
ability until the acquisition of two-handed ability.  It is simply 
easier that way.
 
3.  Two handed.  See parry.
 
4.  One of the important decisions a cleric can make is the choice 
between [1] a staff (that will allow the use parry and two-handed) and 
[2] a one-handed weapon (that will allow the use of parry) and a 
shield (that will allow the use of shield block).  I am a big 
proponent of a one-handed weapon and a shield.  The main reason for 
that is that if you are wielding a staff and get disarmed, you lose 
two defenses.  However, if someone disarms your one-handed weapon, you 
still have your shield to block the blows.  That one shield has saved 
my life from much pain that would surely have ended my life.  Keep in 
mind, however, that some weapons parry better than others.  The help 
scrolls describing each weapon type will provide you with necessary 
information.
 
5.  Holy hands.  The divination of holy hands possesses a defensive 
element.  I will leave it to you to figure it out.
 
The most important piece of advice is of course to experiment.  Try 
different weapons, try different shields, try to fight different 
creatures.  See what works best for you.  Only then will you 
understand the abilities given to your guild by Gods of Thera, and 
only then will you derive a true pleasure of knowing your art.
 
~

Scholar Synduil Qael~
Clerics-Miscellaneous~
This tome continues a series of writings about clerics.  This 
particular volume addresses many miscellaneous divinations and 
supplications available to clerics.  The scroll stands in between 
cleric's amazing defense and sizable offense.  As previous volumes, 
this tome consists of a few pointers intended to guide a young cleric 
on his or her path to glory.
 
1.  Detect divinations.  "Detect invis," "detect evil," and "detect 
magic," and "detect traps" allow a cleric to see things that are not 
immediately apparent to the naked eye.  "Detect invis" must be kept on 
at all times and will warn you of many aggressive beings that have the 
potential of causing you a lot of pain.  "Detect evil" is not a 
requirement but does provide a cleric with an immediate warning that a 
(Red Aura) is around him.  "Detect magic" is the least talked about, 
yet one of the greatest divinations given to clerics.  It allows to 
detect what spells or divinations affect other people and creatures.  
It is INSTRUMENTAL in learning the effects of other spells and other 
guilds' abilities.  I suggest having detect magic at all times and 
then reading help scrolls regarding the abilities that make little 
sense to you.
 
2.  Comprehend languages.  Have you ever heard an ogre or a drunk 
speak?  Or even worse - a drunk ogre?  Well, "comprehend languages" 
will allow you to actually understand what they mean.
 
3.  Create food/Create spring.  Adventurer's best friends.  Do know 
that as you grow in your guild, your create food divination will 
become stronger and will require less pieces of magic apple to satisfy 
your hunger.
 
4.  Refresh.  Know it, learn it.  Ever tried to run away from a shaman 
while beeing feeble?  Refresh will save your life in earlier ranks 
when you are cursed and cannot word and still not old enough to use 
portal.
 
5.  Locate object/identify.  The true way to learn the lands.  
Identify every item to learn of its properties.  Keep in mind that 
some items cannot be located because you are too young or because they 
are hidden by Gods.
 
6.  Faerie fog.  Think there is a thief around you?  Commune the fog.  
Beware of doing it in the city, as that might get you in trouble with 
the Justices.
 
7.  Summon.  Allows a young cleric to obtain infinite number of 
sparkling vials.  Allows an older cleric to find a full set of armor 
without ever having to leave the room.  Learn the EXACT names of 
creatures you want to summon.  For example, King of Asps is not King 
of Asps but "Asp King."
 
Well, as Shamans say:  seven times' a charm.  And keep in mind, all 
divinations have their purpose, it is just a matter of figuring out 
when and how.  Experiment, and you will be happy with the results.
 
~

Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
Article Three~
Article Three - The Military
 
One: The Military forces of Miruvhor, including all armies deployed in 
military operations and those actively engaged in the defense of our 
capital, are under the direct control of the Leader of Miruvhor.  
Henceforth, he is defined as the Commander Supreme of all armies 
bearing the Standard of the Empire of Miruvhor.
 
Two: The General of Miruvhor, hereby deemed the second in  command in 
all matters relating to the armed forces of Miruvhor, and is granted 
leave to conduct military operations of strategic significance without 
needing direct approval of the Commander Supreme in time sensitive 
situations. 
 
Three: All citizens of Miruvhor over the age of eighteen years and 
certified fit for  combat, as defined hereby by their ability to wield 
a sword no longer than a man's arm and no heavier than seven stones, 
is requested and required, upon their nineteenth birthday, to report 
to the nearest office of the Military where they will serve in 
Miruvhor's armed forces for a period of no less than five years. After 
this time, their tour of duty is officially at an end, and they are 
free to leave the military with an honorable discharge, or continue 
their careers. However, they are still subject to the provisions under 
clause four of this article.
 
Four : All citizens of the Empire of Miruvhor, under the provisions 
granted by clause three, who have been trained in the arts of warfare, 
are hereby required to serve in the Royal Secondary Reserve forces of 
Miruvhor. This force is hereby free of the requirements for constant 
training and drills demanded of the Primary Reserve,  but will be 
required to report to their specified battalion leaders at least once 
per year, and meet battle readiness requirements. This force is 
charged with the final defense of Miruvhor, and will be required the 
stand and fight in the streets in the event of foreign invasion. 
 
Five : During times of War, the Armed Forces of Miruvhor are hereby 
granted the power to implement Martial Law in all cities and 
territories controlled by the Empire of Miruvhor. This order can only 
come from the they are under the direct command of the Commander 
Supreme and are exempt from any and all articles in this constitution.
 
Six : The Armed Forces of Miruvhor shall at all times heed and obey 
the orders of the Official Chain of Command of the Empire of Miruvhor.
~

Law and Government~ 3
Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Excerpt from the Codex~
What follows is an excerpt from the Justice Codex dealing with the 
criminal code in affect in some of the cities of the land.  It is pre-
sented here to make the code more readily accessible to all the land's
citizens, in the hopes of improving the knowledge of and obedience to 
those laws.  It is recommended that all should journey to the Justice
headquarters in Ofcol to read the Codex in its entirety.
 
Sheathing
When in protected areas, citizens are required to have all weapons
sheathed.  Up to two warnings should be given before issuing a fine.
Justices or Royals MUST look at the individual, and only when weapons
are noticed to be DRAWM may a fine or wanted flag be issued.  Failure
to obey this procedure will result in penalties against the Justice.
NOTE: Criminals cannot be wanted for this offense.
 
Looting
The taking of items from the corpse of anyone other than an outlaw
in protected cities is against the law. When Justice or Royal sees
a person loot another's corpse within the town the offender MUST 
first be given opportunity to return the belongings to the rightful
owner.  If they do not comply in timely manner they are to be marked 
a criminal.
 
Theft
The stealing of items from anyone other than an outlaw within a pro-
tected city is against the law, this includes weapons and shields
that are disarmed during the course of a battle. 
 
Assault
Attacking any creature within a protected city is against the law,
be it a guard, guild servant, bystander, or an animal.  Any spells 
causing a yell and spells of summon, faerie fog, and gate like spells
are subject to this law.
 
Murder
Killing, or attempting to kill, a non-outlaw within a protected city
is against the law. Any spells causing a yell and spells of summon,
faerie fog, and gate like spells are subject to this law.
 
Obstruction
The law of Obstruction was added sometime after the Codex was origi-
nally written.  Obstruction is defined as any assault, attempted 
theft, or murder on any member of Justice.
 
I have taken the liberty of correcting certain errors in spelling.  I
again urge all to travel to Ofcol to read the Codex in it's entirety.
~

Historian Airen Denetheros~
Government of Shasarazade~
==================================================================== 
|               Structure of the Shasarazadian Duchy               |
|                                                                  |
|                               Yaegar                             |
|                                 |                                |
|            Duke Stalatharata - Duchess Destelandara              |
|                     __________/ | \__________                    |
|                    /            |            \                   |
|      The League of Arms     Nobility     Yaegars Blessed         |
|                    \____________|____________/                   | 
|                                 |                                | 
|                         The Gwellenknach+                        |
|                                                                  | 
|                             * * * * *                            |
|                     -=The League of Arms=-                       |
|                                                                  |
|                      Captain Allertathala                        |
|                            |           |                         |
|   The High Guardian of Shasarazade   The Master Scout            |
|                           |               |                      |
|              Elite Elven Guard     Elite Elven Scouts            |
|                       |                    |                     |
|                     Elven Guard    Elven Scouts                  | 
|                                                                  | 
|                            * * * * *                             |
|                                                                  |
|                       -=Yaegars Blessed=-                        |
|                                                                  |
|                              Yaegar                              |
|                                |                                 |
|                     High Priest Lallinthera                      | 
|                                |                                 |
|                        Priest Pallendio                          |
|                                |                                 |
|                           The Acolyte                            |
|                                                                  |
|                            * * * * *                             |
|                                                                  | 
|                        -=The Nobility=-                          |
|                                                                  | 
|              Duke Stalatharata - Duchess Destelandara            |
|                                                                  |
|                      Advisor Archmage Tuo                        | 
|                                |                                 | 
|                         The Elven Lords++                        |
|                                |                                 |
|                        The Elven Nobles                          |
|                                                                  |
|                            * * * * *                             |
|                                                                  |
|+The Gwellenknach, also known as the Lower Castes, is composed of |
|  the common people.                                              |
|                                                                  |
|++Most of the Elven Lords were slain in the Goblin Wars.          |
|                                                                  |
====================================================================
~

Scholar Livana Arianwen~
Charter of the Band of Light~
Purpose
--------
The objective of the Band is to gather the forces of light, to make 
common cause against its enemies, and to aid all who truly wish 
to live in the peace of the light.
 
Structure
--------
The band will consist of two parts:
- The Faithful will be the clerical branch.  They will aid those in 
need without any thought for compensation.  They will also 
support the Defenders by aiding them in preparation to face the 
enemy.
 
- The Defenders will aid those who are under attack by the forces 
of darkness, and are not able to defend themselves properly.  
They will also punish those who have proven themselves beyond 
redemption.
 
The leader of the clan will be elected by a vote of its members.  
An elder may call for a new election at any time, but that elder 
will not be eligible to run for the leadership.  The leader or 
immortal advisor may call for an election at any time. There will 
be two elders from each division.  These elders will be chosen by 
the leader, and must be of at least the forty-fifth rank. When the 
leader is not available, the elders will act with his or her 
authority.  However, a decision made by an elder may be 
appealed by the leader. The leader and each elder will have an 
assistant of their choosing. These will be trusted members of the 
clan, and are permitted to make decisions on behalf of their 
superior when no leader or elder is present, subject to the 
superior's ratification when they are available. The rank of 
veteran will be given to those members who have shown true 
dedication to the Light and to the clan, in the opinion of the 
senior members of the clan.
~

Creature Compendium~ 25
Herald Damia Banston~
Dimiturium-Those of the Kaun~
Many people name any energy that surrounds them simply, Arcana.  But in
fact, it is not that simple.  There are billions of energies that surround
us, and millions of different combinations, so then in fact, not all forces
are mindless, and thus as simple as we consider Arcana.  Some energies
combine with each other and a life form appears.  Dimiturium is one of those
life forms.  Usually young inhabitants of the life forms from Arcana come to
Thera hidden, and you can not always knows for sure if your Faerie freind is
a Faerie, or a Laguz from the Arcana planes.  Yet Dimiturium did not want to
fool the people of Thera, and he became known as he truly was, a Kaun. 
Those of the Arcana tend to call themselves much different from a Kaun, a
Luguz, and so on, they call themselves a name much longer.  A name that
consists of every energy that is combined inside to complete them.  Kaun,
Luguz, and all the others are simply the name of the Rune they represent.  A
Kaun is much like Rune of Fire, while a Laguz is more like the Rune of
Water.  Those specific elements will flow through them, taking some and
giving some much like the air we breath flows through us.  The Arcana are
like students here, they are here to learn, and to gather knowledge.  In
some ways and meanings, they are Immortal, never dying, only learning and
living.  They travel among many planes, living many lives just like everyone
else does, although not many believe it.  For they do not forget anything
from previous lives, while all others do.  They believe our souls only try
to clear themselves in the end, while the Arcana's souls do not care.  They
are here for one thing, the need to gain experience and knowledge.  Death
itself means nothing to them, for they believe it doesn't exist and that
death is just a door everyone must pass.  Even if the body they inhabit is
destroyed, a new one comes and the quest for knowledge continues.  When
their time comes, they will go back to their planes transformed.  They will
be without flesh, invisible, and free until their time to travel the many
planes comes once again.  
 
~

Herald Damia Banston~
Cysor- Those of the Centaur~
Cysor the Swift, as he calls himself, is the last of the Centaur
Broadswords.  In his time they were a great force for the light, even as
young Centaurs they were taking the battle back to the demons in the Great
War and forging their names in history.  But after the Great War a strange
apathy came upon them.  Their kind, always ready for righteous battle, were
assailed by a boredom they had never known before.  Some of Cysor's kind
were all too eager to take up another cause without properly considering
their actions, and so their downfall began.  It was late autumn when the
skies of his forest home darkened with the early onset of the shadow months.
Members of the Stallion Council were in dispute over a seemingly unimportant
matter.  A stranger had come into their midst, a Human by the name of
Roderick Greywind.  The suspicions of the Elders had been prickled because
while Roderick was preset, the small folk would not come to them, and as all
know, the Centaurs are friends of the Fae.  Their brash youths, and Cysor
himself included, thought the fae were simply afraid because of Roderick's
strangeness to them.  Roderick was preaching of a "New Way", he claimed the
old faith, the gods of the light, were no longer the only power.  He claimed
his new faith, which he called The Church of the Bright Star, was in fact an
alternative and more valid faith to use in these modern days.  The Centaurs
could not see his trickery until it was too late.  The stranger had charisma
and charm, but it was not to long before many of the young Centaurs rebelled
against the old ways, seeing it as a kind of Crusade, something to keep the
ever-growing boredom at bay.  Yet, the stranger Roderick was no Human at
all, he was a messenger of the demons.  He had afflicted them with a
malaise, a charm to sap the will of the Centaurs so that a demonic agent
could come and take their eyes from the true light, and turn them to heresy.
Finally, Cysor began to see the truth, for he came upon Roderick when he
expected to be alone and he found him in his true form.  Cysor shouted the
alarm, but it was too late.  Their ways had turned to darkness and the
corruption of such innocent souls had given great power to the Dark Ones.  A
doorway opened to the rift, and the demons had come though.  When Cysor ran
out into the forest camp, screaming the alarm beneath the moon, his horror
was complete.  His kin lay slain all around him, the demons running free,
sucking at their veins, slashing at their lifeless bodies for the sheet joy.
Knowing he could not win this battle, rife with shame, Cysor fled into the
darkness.  After many years in the forests, he found himself upon the
Emerald Forest, residing there until he made his way slowly into the cities.
Several years have passed and Cysor has heard that the resourceful Elves
managed to close the rift gate.  He has since turned from both the Light,
and the Darkness, and can no longer acknowledge either, for Nature is he
only true form, and that is what he now strives to protect.  He seeks to
become a Druid, but his fall still stains his soul, putting these words down
for the future as a warning.  "Beware the false prophet, the demonic ways
are the ways of trickery."  
 
~

Herald Damia Banston~
Mysrin of the Quicklings~
Some one hundred Human lifetimes the Quicklings, being much like the
Faeries of today, they loved the mysteries of the Arcane.  They were quite
adept at what they did even though they had little patience for drawn out
research and lengthy rituals, and often took shortcuts in their art. 
Unbeknownst to the Faeries however, Mircea did not take well to their
improvisational techniques.  Waiting was never their strong point, but what
was soon to come would be much, much different then they could imagine.  In
a ritual used to bind a Wyrm to the village as a guardian, Mircea himself
came down from the vortex and spoke to them.  He said that they toiled and
labored to foil what he had set forth, and had crossed the final threshold
of his ire.  With a pass of his hand, time seemed to slow to a crawl around
them, and he laughed as he said they would live not knowing a settled moment
until the sun drinks of the sea.  Since then, few of them ventured out into
the lands, as they did not wish to wait for any of the other races to finish
a sentence, or the other races could not understand a single sentence they
spoke.  But soon curiosity got the best of Mysrin, as boredom usually does,
and that is how he bumbled into Val Miran.  For the better part of the day
Mysrin wandered around Val Miran trying to keep himself out of as much
trouble as possible.  After he grew bored with the streets, he began poking
about the buildings, and that is how he found the Battlemage's guild.  Their
guard didn't even notice Mysrin's tiny form quickly buzzing by, and soon
enough he was roaming about the halls, looking at all the tomes and items of
magic.  Soon Fuzban, the guild leader inside the Halls caught Mysrin, and
that is what got him curious, again.  Fuzban caught him before he even had a
chance to run.  Mysrin never imagined that a Human, let alone an elderly
Human could move so quickly.  Mysrin had to know how he controlled the flow
of time around him, and begged Fuzban to teach him.  At first, Fuzban did
not understand Mysrin's quickened speech, and told him to slow down, but
still his words made little sense.  So Fuzban cast another spell, this one
to slow Mysrin's body.  He had never known what it was like to see things as
other Therans see them, it was peaceful.  His mind was raging on twenty
different things at one time, and he did not feel the urge to constantly be
in motion or doing something.  After Fuzban questioned him on who he was,
and where he was from, he was taken in as an apprentice.  
 
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Asharak-The Tainted Elf~
When Asharak was a child, he traveled with his family to the High 
Tower of Sorcery, where his father intended to negotiate a peace 
treaty between their native Shasarazade and Miruvhor.  In addition to 
his parents, his family included a sister, and their father encouraged 
them to meet the Lords and Ladies of Miruvhor, hoping to charm them 
with the children's innocence.  Once the time for the negotiations had 
arrived, their father dismissed them from the room and left them to 
look after themselves having served their purpose.  His sister pos-
sessed a rebellious and inquisitive nature, and soon set out to 
explore the strange sights of the tower, with Asharak trying his best 
to keep up with her.  The rooms that fascinated her most were the ones 
with warning signs to stay out, and trying the door of one such room 
she found it unlocked.  Despite her brothers urging to come away and 
return to where they were supposed to wait, she opened the door and 
stepped inside.  Her screams resounded down the hall, seeming to fade 
slightly as if she was falling from a great height.  Unthinking of the 
danger, Asharak ran into the room after her.
 
He felt himself falling, yet it seemed he fell only the height of one 
floor.  He found himself surrounded by a darkness too dense for even 
his elven eyes to penetrate.  Suddenly, he felt hands reaching out to 
grasp him.  Their touch burned him, but it was the cold burn of ice 
rather than flame he felt.  Just before he felt himself starting to 
slip into unconsciousness, the touch of the hands receded and light 
slowly returned to the room.  On an altar in the center of the room, 
he saw his sister, pinned faced down by a spear running the length of 
her body.  Before he could react, a black blade appeared out of no-
where, and sliced down cleanly through both the spear and the young 
elven girl's neck.  The light faded once more and the hands returned, 
their touch draining the life from him until he slipped into a dark 
sleep.
 
When he awoke, he was in a temple.  Before him stood a priestess he 
took at first for an elf, but soon realized that she was a drow.  
Strangely, he did not feel the hate and anger he would once have felt 
at the sight of the dark elf.  Instead, he felt accepted.  He stood to 
his feet, and as he did something fell from his clothing.  It was a 
piece of the spear that had held his sister down.  As the spear left 
his body, he was struck by a strange weakness.  He felt the urge to 
pick up the spear again; to hold it, caress it, and serve it.  As he 
lifted it, strength flushed through his body, and he felt stronger 
than he ever had before in his life.  In time he found that the spear 
gifted him with powers that Dark Knights take years to train.  He also 
found that things that had once disgusted him now seemed strangely 
appealing.
 
As an example of how far he has fallen, I leave you with his parting 
words to the author of this tome:
"Why do you torture a baby from his feet up?  Because then we can see 
the expression on its face.  I had once thought this of the utmost 
horror, but that pure look of pain makes my day even now."
~

Herald Damia Banston~
Sora- Those of the Siren~
Many years ago, the Mother Gaia was quite content.  All this being before
terrible things began happening.  Many of Gaia's more intelligent children
began to turn on her.  They built up cities, tore down forests, and raped
her earth.  She had never known such pain before, ever.  It was then that
the Mother Gaia discovered vengeance.  In response to this treachery, She
created two sets of children: The male Ents, whose duty it was to protect
the remaining forests and earth, and then their sisters, the Sirens, who did
the same for the seas.  While the Ents chose the way of battle to protect
the forest, the Sirens chose the way of song.  The Sirens would sing and
lure those that were destroying the seas to the secluded place, where they
would then proceeded to devour them.  But Sora never sang, instead she
played the Lyre, a hand-held instrument similar to the harp.  Sora, being
the last Siren created by Gaia and the youngest, had not yet grown accustom
to the taste of flesh, yet she would help lure those harming the seas to her
sisters none-the-less.  Through the Siren's singing, and Sora's playing,
they seemed to be keeping the seas well taken care of.  They did this in
seclusion for hundreds of years, and then one day a passing seagull brought
news of the dry lands, which happens very rarely.  It was from the bird that
they were informed of the Ents.  It seems that they had disappeared, just.. 
Left.  And all this time the cities have been expanding and the Mothers pain
was growing.  When Sora heard this news, she decided to come to the dry land
to clean up what the Ents had left behind.  

~

Scribe Irpel Brpel~
Efrutian- Frost Giants~
Efrutian: a Frost Giant, born in Rheydin, and blessed with the power of
ice in Desolation, lives to serve the One God, and become a soldier for the
Crown of Thera.  An old warrior, the mother, a healer, raised Efrutian in
Rheydin for a short while, before it was declared their kind not wanted
there.  In an attempt to find a new home, the three set out to Winter, north
of Rheydin.  The living was harsh in that area, and Efrutian's parents were
experiencing the weaknesses of the elderly.  Years passed, and over these
years, Efrutian's parents used their last days to help the young storm Giant
to Desolation.  There, on Efrutian's 17th birthday, his father died, but was
heavily elightened in this passing.  The old warrior rose as a Sprirt of the
One God's Army in the Heavens.  A few days later, his mother slept into
eternal slumber as well.  

Efrutian's parents did not leave him alone, however.  They had relatives in
the frosted place, primarily the Frost Giant kind.  The young storm giant
was slowly accepted into the culture.  However, it was not a transformation
just yet.  In fact, the ones of his kind named him half-cast, or even trash.
This was even after Efrutian was accepted.  But what is seen in Efrutian
this day is not a young storm giant, but a powerful, matured Frost Giant.  A
curse it was, set by a crazed witch-doctor.  The curse did not seem to be a
disadvantage.  Efrutian now lives wherever his battles and journeys take
him.  When fighting, the Frost Giant has as advantage with water, but a
heavy dislike of fire.  The kin also has a partial immunity to lightning. 
It is fact that Efrutian loathes Fire Giants.  It is also fact that wood
burns to his touch, much like mithril to a drow, or iron to an elf.  All in
all, Efrutian has grown to adapt outside the snowy plains of Desolation, and
continues to fight for the One God, and his fight to one day protect the
Throne, and the people under it.  
 
~

Scribe Irpel Brpel~
Feraia- The Unicorn~
Feraia Auvere; a White Lady, follower of Divinity: The Elveth Yaegar. 
From the beginning of time, Feraia was a Unicorn, living east of Val Miran
in the Mountains and valleys.  She lived with several others of her kind,
and all was peaceful.  Peace resided until what was crudely titled the
'Great Chaos', or more properly named the 'Fall of Gregishania'.  This time
was certainly a downfall.  The armies of the Darkness rose and attacked the
light of the Unicorn world, along with many other light walkers.  The Dark
Ones also took the lands for their own.  These Dark Ones consisted of what
were named Ork.  The Ork soon learned of the Unicorn's affinity to the
Elveths.  When the Ork came to rid the world of the Unicorn, most of the kin
pleaded to Divinity for mercy, and salvation.  This was unacceptable.  She-
Divinity- did not take lightly to Cowardice.  The Divinity soon found that
Unicorn were not worthy of their home, and were soon after branded outcast,
and moralized into what are now know White Lords & Ladies.  

The seeing of a White Lord or Lady became rare, for their shame of being
seen with this new appearance.  The Cowardice lived in most, but some
conjured the will to continue.  An example of the regret of begging lived in
Feraia, for she now strives to prove herself worthy before Her- Divinity. 
If once regaining this honor, her True form will return to her.  She has
lived as a Cleric, and knows little of the city, nor does she enjoy the city
all that much.  The woods, mountains, and valleys still suit her taste.  
~

Scribe Irpel Brpel~
Sslandith- The Blessed Gecko~
Sslandith Falendria - Born supposedly under a simple, quaint stone as a
little, three-inch Gecko, or just lizard.  Sslandith, when very young,
fended and protected his family from A horde of ugly, horned lizards,
attempting to devour him, and his friends.  During this battle, a priest of
Purity watched on as the small Gecko won his fight for freedom.  Oddly, the
priest earlier had foreseen an incredible wave of darkness coming upon the
world, and a great many warriors of the light would be needed to stop this
onslaught.  The priest took Sslandith as his own, and treated him well,
giving him sanctuary and care.  

One day, the priest took the small gecko, places him upon the altar, and
chanted an incredible spell, increasing Sslandith's size by nearly 100 fold!
Not only did his size change physically, but also mentally, as the priest's
knowledge, ability, and ideals.  After this, the priest was able to explain
things to the now large, inelegant gecko.  Sslandith was chosen for the
task, and the priest years and years to create a blessing that could enhance
Sslandith so.  A bit later, the priest let Sslandith go, and explore the
world.  Finding a guild became hard for him, for his nature could only be
compared as closely to that of a slith.  In other words, the priestly
knowledge had to be converted to a warrior; However, obviously, Sslandith
didn't find much trouble in that.  He shunned the thieves whole heartedly,
for his ideals to pick-pocketing were heavily negative.  

After a while serving the guild, it was about time to visit his "father". 
Upon reaching the home of the priest, named Elendirz, was kneeling before
none other than a dark-knight.  In a few seconds, Sslandith had decapitated,
and torn the dark-knight to shreds, just like he had done to the ugly
lizards attacking his home.  The situation seemed symbolic to the way the
realms were being invaded by the evil.  Sslandith saw great purpose in this,
and encouragement of place.  He felt this was right where he belonged.  

Sslandith, warrior of Sylvantis, has vowed to repay the debt of being able
to fight for a cause by sacrificing his life to Avatarship.  Lover of the
sun, and warm placed, loather of pointless death and dark-knights, goes by
the name Falendria, which was the name of the priest whom brought the
incredible blessing upon him.  
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Kandjara-The Half-slith~
The life of Kandjara Zhalman began in a wizard's tower near the city 
of Miruvhor.  Her mother was a human woman whom the wizard had either 
caught or bought; regardless of which she was a slave in his tower.  
The wizard somehow grew curious as to what the combination of a slith 
and human would be like, a combination that is impossible in nature.  
He managed to capture a slith warrior and used his dark magic to im-
pregnate the woman by him.  After Kandjara was born, she lived with 
her mother in a cell that was really little more than a cage, her 
'father' having no further part in her life.  As she grew, her mother 
taught her language, and a little about the world outside the tower.  
The wizard seemed quite proud of his creation, and would bring her out 
to show his visitors, who would poke and prod this curious creature.  
One visitor seemed disgusted by the sight however, a plump old man 
with a long beard.  The day following the old man's visit, the wizard 
entered the cell and told Kandjara's mother that he had sold Kandjara 
for a price that was too good to refuse.  Of course, it turned out 
that the one who bought her was the same plump old man, and she left 
the tower for her new home.
 
Her new home was quite different from the tower.  Here, she was not 
treated like a pet or animal and she had a room of her own.  Unfor-
tunately, as she grew older she was a bit too aggressive.  One day, 
she struck the old man's grandson over the head with a pan.  The boy 
wasn't seriously hurt, but the old man decided the Kandjara needed 
help in self control.  He had managed to identify the half-slith's 
biological father, so he made arrangements with his kin to take 
Kandjara in and help her to deal with her reptilian half.  Once again, 
she suffered ill treatment because of what she was, as many of the 
sliths looked at her strangely, and some did more than look.  She 
stood it as long as she could, then she left Falen Dara and traveled 
to Rheydin.  The cosmopolitan nature of that city allowed Kandjara a 
measure of tolerance, for she was just one of the many strange crea-
tures who visit Rheydin.
 
Please note the Kandjara Zhalman is a unique creature, and she is in 
no way related to the famed half-slith Knight Loucheran.
~

Academician  Damia Banston~
Irpel- Those of the Dolls~
Irpel, being much like the blasphemy dolls is the tombs west of Val
Miran, was raised and brought to life by a Necromancer.  Although Irpel is
made of cloth and fabric, he was made a runt, much smaller then the rest of
the Dolls within the tombs.  Incidently, the Necromancer that rose Irpel,
died soon after bringing him to life.  He has no memory before being rose,
his earliest memories start at the moment he was brought to life, when the
Necromancer died, and Irpel found himself lost within the tombs.  Of course,
Irpel eventually found his way out of the tombs, by following the light that
people left by going in and out of the tree.  He floated down a river
towards Val Miran, and then finding himself in Rheydin.  The guilds and
people intrigued Irpel, and he decided to stay.  But the thing that most
intrigued Irpel, was the bards, the way they sang, and laughed, and liked to
make people happy.  Although in his early years, Irpel could do nothing but
write what he wished to say, the guild-master of the guild he eventually
chose, which was of course, the Bards, taught him to speak the way he does
presently.  Although Irpel can not smile, nor cry, nor express any other
feelings many of us take for granted, be it because he has nod soul, or
because he just can not use his face the way the rest of us do, anyone who
takes the time to get to know Irpel will be amazed at what kind of person
can fit in such a small package.  
 
~

Academician  Damia Banston~
Davada- Those of the Gremar~
Davada, bound to be created as a Bronze golem, was brought to life by his
former master, the exiled Archmagus Grimisint.  He was to merely be a
guardian, to prevent the unwanted from entering his masters newfound grove. 
But a turn of events, and possible luck, gave Davada the one thing no other
golem was to ever have: Sentient thought.  But the process in which was used
to create him, had a drawback, the mental capacity Grimisint had lost during
the spell had gathered and lingered about the target of the spell, Davada. 
The small fraction Davada was given, gave him the capacity to learn, and
thirst for knowledge.  He was no longer the mindless slave Grimisint had
intended.  His thirst for knowledge carried him to the extensive collection
of tomes and manuals his master had, and it caused him great pain to learn
that he would never see any of these things.  Davada soon spoke with his
master of his desire to leave and explore the world.  He grew furious with
Davada, saying that he was the one whom gave him life, that Davada was not a
creature, but a hunk of metal, nothing more.  Davada paced the surrounding
grove for a time, before realizing that his servitude was his price for
life, but upon Davada's return, he found his masters chamber bereft of all
his belongings.  Davada searched the chamber, finding only two items.  One,
being a scroll from Grimisint, which stated that he understood that it was
wrong to attempt to hinder Davada and he left him with two gifts.  One, the
axe Sulphax the Reds, great axe of bloodlust (Which was found next to the
scroll) and the second, was his name, Davada, meaning first and final. 
Davada was loathsome, and sulked for a time before realizing he was free. 
He began to wander and soon stumbled into a stone giant, attempting to kill
three elves, wood elves from the scrolls he had read.  He told the Elves to
flee, and he charged the giant, a fight ensuing, ending in Davada nearly
being beaten to death.  While he felt his time dwindling, he dropped the
axe, realizing that the giant knew not what he was, nor what he could do. 
Davada smiled, and told the giant to stop playing.  Confused, the giant
lumbered off, and Davada collapsed into darkness .  Incidentally, the Elves
never left, they watched as Davada bluffed his way through the fight.  When
Davada awoke, a small dramatization of the fight was in action, one elf
pointed to the other who was playing Davada, and said "Gremar."  He recalled
some of the brief text he read about the language of these particular Elves,
and asked them what the name meant, expecting something regal, given to
hardened warriors, or even a chief.  But was severely let down to know that
Gremar means..  Bender of truth.  
~

Academician  Damia Banston~
Hecture- Those of the Treant~
Evolving from a tree to be its spirit, given the blessing of Gaia to be
her guardian, Hecture is a Treant, or more formally, an Ent.  Hecture was
raised by Stone giants, when his father found him while he was on a trip to
a Theran meeting of all of the Beserkers of lands near and far.  His mother
was a black-smith, in which his sir name, Hammersmash, originated.  They
were mountain giants, and while his father, a few of his students, and
himself were fishing, Hecture noticed his reflection in the water, and
discovered he was different.  He realized he had always been smaller then
the other giants, and was more intelligent, but he never realized it to this
extent.  The other mountain giants had never noticed anything was wrong at
all, they were either not wise enough to know the difference, or did not
wish to question a respectable Guildmaster.  Hecture was five when he
noticed he resembled something all to familiar, but it was not apparent at
the time.  When Hecture was seven, it was pointed out to him that he was a
tree.  "A tree?"  Hecture said with anger, although it all made sense
inside.  He had a craving for nature, and he had joined the guildhall of the
Rangers, not Beserkers like his father had.  Hecture did not confront his
parents at the time, they noticed one day that he was unhappy, and asked why
this was.  Hecture informed them that he was a tree, and in this community
was important to fit in, to do and be as your father is and was.  After he
told his parents of his difference, they shunned him.  They did not want a
child that was not self-confident.  After he left his home in the mountains,
he traveled all over until he was well into his three hundred and sixteenth
year, and found Thera.  He had refound his original home, and the forest of
Drkshytre, which was a place that would soon change his life.  Hecture heard
voices, they were fellow Treants, Ents, and perhaps Gaia herself.  The
Treants taught Hecture of his history to the best of their knowledge, and
also told him of his cause.  Gaia had grown impatient, and she created an
army to fight the undead, demons, and the unnatural beings.  Much like she
created the Sirens for the seas.  But Hecture was different then any other
Treant Gaia had created, Hecture was created to command this army of
Treants.  Although Hecture is not fit to command such an army yet, he awaits
his day to begin the cause in which he was created.  
~

Scribe Leto Demena~
Koratzu - Lady Turtle~
I met Koratzu on a fine, spring day.  There was a soft chill carried 
on the breeze, and the lack of humidity was quite a blessing.  I was
sitting high upon the top of the Great Library, when I did absently
glance down, only to see quite a strange sight. Quickly I did flutter
down to ground level, where I was even more amazed.  My vision
was clear, I was seeing straight, and before me I did see the largest,
grandest turtle ever to grace these lands.  Even more than shocked
 I was to hear words, complete and correct, flowing naturally from
this female creature's mouth. It was then that I did inquire on what
manner of being she was, and what did take place to make her as she
did appear.  Quite kind, and every ready to explain herself, Koratzu
did slowly and with much articulation tell me of what became her. I
will start at the beginning.
 
Koratzu, in her early years, was a turtle like any other.  She natural
habitat was that of the arid wetlands were one can often find Newborns
 in training.  She remembers little of her life before her transformation
took place, but the day of the event rings clearly in her mind.  It was
late afternoon on a summer's day when a mage did engage in battle
with the young Newborns, and perhaps by fate, or perhaps by mere
coincidence, a spell did misfire.  Koratzu, sitting unawares by the bank
of the stream, was hit by a combination of strange, unknown magicks,
and her changes did slowly begin.  At first, her form begin to shift
growing large in height and width. Then, quite suddenly, thought began
to take place, true thought, as all of Theran's citizens understand.
Quickly she began to learn most things we take for granted, and a vast
 interest she did hold in all things around her.
 
It was shortly after that she did become an apprentice to the Lake Watcher,
a hermit type fellow who generally tends the territory that had always
been her home.  From him, Koratzu did learn the basic methods of
combat and defense, before starting to train more specifically on the
arts of the ninja.  It was apparent from the beginning what a fine student
she was, and progressed swiftly she did in her studies.  From there, she
did make her way to civilization where she continues to learn and expand
her awareness.
 
Of her old habits and inborn instincts I was quite interested in.  Like her 
normal, small relations, Koratzu is deathly afraid of falling onto the back
of her shell, and in order to adapt to her grand proportions, she has gained
an amazing sense of both balance and grace.  When the winter months
do blow in their cold conditions, she struggles against the urge to burrow
and sleep, instead choosing to snuggle deep within her shell close to a
toasty fire. The need to maintain her shell is still an issue, and often
Koratzu can be found swimming and soaking in nearby streams and rivers.
The desire to breed is also quite strong, though this is a process
no longer possible for her to achieve.
 
Overall, Koratzu is a fine, unique lady with a deep notion of
goodness, and a fine moral character.  Though strange she may
appear on the outside, do not fear of approaching her, for indeed
she is quite kind being. Like many Therans, Koratzu's manners
are vast and polite, and she should be treated with the respect
she so deserves.

~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
Xel-The Oakis~
Rather than the more common material most tomes are written on, this
piece of work is etched on a piece of thin gray metal.
 
Long ago, before even the elves and faeries walked the world, Gaia was
lonely.  She desired companionship, and entertainment and so she chose
to make some.  For entertainment she created a race of beings called
the Oakis, a race of tree-like creatures, to sing and dance, rhyme and
speak with her.  For companionship, she created a mate, whom the Oakis
call 'The Woodsy Lord'.  This is neither Kalug or Rotarx, who accord-
ing to Xel were created after the Oakis, but something even greater.
She set the Oakis to tend the forest plants and animals, and made them
to live on light and water.  She also made them immortal, so they 
could serve her for eternity.  Oakis love the soil, but especially 
they love the flora of the forest, trees above all.  She placed the 
Oakis under the rule of the Woodsy Lord, and gave him the fist of 
ironwood.  When the Oakis were bad, he made them hurt.  When they were 
good he let them sing, dance, play, and do tricks.  So they spent
their time entertaining the goddess, and pleasing their lord.
 
It came to pass that their idyllic existence ended with the coming of
the tree bugs.  These voracious creatures ate almost anything, but es-
pecially the Oakis, including killing Xel's mate.  They were sent by
Virigoth, who the Oakis call 'the rotsy lord'.  Virigoth was angered
that Gaia had made the Oakis immortal, and demanded that they be bound
to the cycle as are all other living things.  Gaia reluctantly agreed,
but instead of changing the Oakis, she changed the tree bugs, merging
them with the natural bugs of her own to create bugs that eat wood, or
flesh, or plants, but not all three.  The bugs were made to breed and
eat, and that's what they did.  The bugs did their work, slowly re-
ducing the members of the Oakis race down to a few.  Now the Oakis
watch the creatures who Gaia created after them, the elves, faeries, 
halflings, and others, but most especially the humans.  The watch the 
way their forest home is destroyed by the 'manfools' and they grow 
angry.  So beware, for the tree beside you just might be an Oakis, 
ready for revenge.
~

Scholar Salana Orvanof~
Thraeik-The Argon~
As the seige by the orcs of the dwarven city of Grothlem errupted, a
young warrior put his life on the line to save all that he dearly loved.  He
fought many battles in this unpredicted war, and served his army the way it
should have been served.  Unfortunatly, a tragedy left him disabled from the
war.  While defending his city, a large polearm was launched, enivetibly
finding it's resting place, in the arm of the young warrior.  But, out of
this tragedy, came a happy ending.  A young healer had been sent to care for
the injured and sick.  The warrior instantly fell in love.  Not long after
that, Thraeik was born.  He was not like the other dwarves in the city, but
was just as special.  At a young age, he was sent to help defend his city
from the attacks by the orcs.  One day, while in battle, Thraeik was knocked
unconcious.  Many moons later, he awoke, only to find himself in a heap of
rubble, and broken buildings.  He noticed that his mother and brother were
missing, so he set off to find them, never to return to the carnage, he once
called home.  The dwarves of the city did not like Thraeik and his family
too well, as they were halfbloods.  They were not treated the same, and that
upset the family.  The dwarves named them Argons, so they would not confuse
them with the others of the city.  Although their features are similar, the
Argons are naturally more peaceful and calm than their dwarven relatives.  

To this day, Thraeik has yet to find his lost family.  There have been
rumors of another Argon walking the streets of Thera, but Thraeik has only
read of him.  
~

Scribe Brysingel~
The origin of Faerie.~
Long ago Faeries lived in harmonious wonder in a land created in
illusion.  This land was called 'Under the hill,' by some but was more
truthfully over and under and around the hill.  The humans and other races
were welcome to visit and join the riotous Faerie parties, as long as they
were honorable to their hosts and took nothing away from the halls of
Faerie.  But, morals amongst the mortals being as they are, this was one of
the first rules broken.  Much consternation broke out in the Hall at what
was seen as perfidy and betrayal of trust.  Many friendships had been
formed.  Punishment was discussed and a decision taken that all must suffer!
Punishment was not going to be divided.  It was to be a complete exclusion
of the world of mortals from the world of Faerie that was proposed.  The
Faerie would lose their joy of exploration and the humans their joy of
sharing in the wonder of illusion.  The Dukes Slae and Akadd had each of
them a daughter, both of whom had given their heart to a mortal.  Amid the
fighting and discussions, they gathered their loyal friends to themselves
and slunk out of the halls the night before the gates to the world were due
to commence the ceremonial closing.  The Dukes found out of their daughter's
escape and were distraught as the doors between the worlds slowly but
inexorably shut.  All they could do was to make a portal so that they may
see of the girls fortunes as they lived their lives in the land of mortals. 
Yolande was the first to find that her mortal friend had feet of clay.  He
wanted none of her since she had lost much of the faerie magic and the
illusion of size she had once possessed, but she, being of stout heart and
fortitude beyond her real stature set up a store in the forests of the E'gal
and there her descendants and followers descendants live to this day
becoming the Yslae faeries.  Kemilin on the other hand caused her father
much pain as he watched her progress through the portal.  Her 'friend' was
of a black heart and led her to many atrocities.  She being much in love
with him, followed wherever he led.  All of the time using what little
powers she still had in the pursuit of his cause, she accepted his taunts,
jeers and his large-handed slaps.  He was forgiven all, for a few daliances
when it suited his purpose.  Finally the counsel of her cousin and the
depredations she suffered forced her to see what she had become.  She also
retired to the forests of the E'gal close to where her cousin resided.  With
her followers she formed the Kadder Faerie community.  Both the cousins
tried to recreate the halls of Faerie to the best of their ability.  While
Yolande concentrated on the faeries becoming a community, for Kemelin it was
different.  Never did the experiences Kemelin endured with her mortal lover
leave her, and to this day, the Kadder Faeries are of a warlike intent
slapping all and sundry when their territory is invaded.  
~

Herald Salana Orvanof~
Garmex and the Fire Squad~
Garmex the Flaming Foreman, as he is called by his employees, grew up
working with his father at their Elium Forest logging company.  Even at a
young age, Garmex was known for his temper.  When something wouldn't go the
way he planned, he would destroy whatever was in his way, costing his
father's company millions of dollars.  Garmex's father allowed him to
continue working for him, as long as he promised not to destroy anything
else, when he lost his temper.  Garmex worked hard for several years, and
was eventually promoted to vice president of his father's company.  While at
that position, Garmex's temper grew, and he fired many of the workers,
without his father knowing.  

Garmex became greedy, and wanted the company to himself.  One day, Garmex
gathered a few of his closest friends, on a mission to remove his father. 
While his father gathered and stacked logs, Garmex rolled a log behind him,
and his father was struck by it.  He ended up hurting his back, permanently.
Garmex immediately became the president of the company.  Things became worse
from there.  Garmex went on rampages of anger, and eventually was titled,
"The Flaming Foreman".  Although very angry, Garmex has managed to run his
father's business with great success.  His company can be found in Elium
Forest, still running strong.  
~

Scholar Synduil Qael~
Rahkir Erythane of Undeath~
I walk into the dark hall.  The walls are wet, and sudden drops of 
water penetrate my silence.  A spectral guardian blocks the entrance, 
but then reluctantly lets me through.  I smile at him and shudder at 
the thought of all the elven children that he devoured.  
 
I continue down the corridor.  The kindreds.  The guardians.  The 
matures.  The soldiers.  Each kin gets stronger and stronger as I 
progress into the darkness.  At last I encounter a dark room with a 
lone creature.  Rahkir Erythane is his name and people call him the 
Antipaladin of Undeath.
 
Glancing upon the Dark-Knight, I see:  a hulking physical form, lithe 
and muscled from years of battle, Rahkir Erythane was once Lord 
Talex's mentor, but eventuall was surpassed by the skill of his former 
student.  Realizing Lord Talex's true power, he decided to become the 
General of his Unholy Force, second in command only to Lord Talex 
himself.  He awaits the day his master will call for his services, and 
until that day guards the tomb with his unlife.
 
At times, Rahkir shudders and cries remembering the former power that 
he once had.  As his eyes water, they fill with blood of the darkest 
red.  A small pool of blood quickly forms at Rahkir's feet.  
 
I asked about Rahkir's past... but only one word was uttered - DEATH.  
And with that, an image came before my eyes, as if a psionicist 
planted it in my mind:  A village of gnomes and halflings and a pretty 
house of humans in the middle.  A wave of fire.  A wave of decay.  A 
skeleton that slowly grows the flesh of undeath.  A 12-year old boy 
becoming a kindred, a guardian, a mature, a soldier... becoming Rahkir 
Erythane the Antipaladin of Undeath.  As the picture leaves my eyes, I 
shudder.  Mass hysteria overcomes me and I attempt to word home.  Yet, 
I fail.  And as I run away from the Tombs, I hear a chuckle of Rahkir 
in my ears.  Mua... muah... muaha... muahahahaha.
 
~

Herald Synduil Qael~
Mists of Crimson Death~
There is a place in Thera where the snow never stops.  There is a 
place in Thera where ice covers the land and beasts hide under its 
crust.  There is a place in Thera called Winter... and holds it many 
wonders.  Many days I spent traveling that God Forsaken place.  
Many dangers I have encountered.  At last, I came across a place where 
Mists abide, the Mists of Crimson Death.
 
Quite scary creatures they are... but fascinating nevertheless.  Upon 
looking at one I saw that it is nothing but: a formless mass of decay 
smelling air ..that seems strangely alive and malevolent.  Inside I 
saw the hundreds of faces of the people who have fell victim to this 
nameless creature.  Even inside the mist, the souls call out for help 
drawing you nearer.
 
And near the mists I got and swallowed me they did.  And nightmares I 
saw.  The nightmares that only drow shamans see as they stick pins 
into their voodoo dolls.
 
A times, the Mists leave their frozen lands and travel to the warmer 
climates.  Old wives use their unimaginable drawings to scare little 
children, but at times a picture comes alive, and a fear becomes 
reality, as a mist withdraws from the image and swallows the child 
whole.
~

Herald Salana Orvanof~
Origins of the Werebeast.~
In the first age, a small tribe of humans who made their homes deep in
the forest, witnessed their homes destroyed by the on-moving civilization. 
After regrouping, they started a resistance against the intruders, devoting
their lives to protect the nature around them.  Their dedication touched the
heart of Gaia, the Earth Goddess.  She bestowed upon them the powers of
nature, the bloodline of the animals in the forest, to aid them in their
quest.  The humans became half-human, half-beast.  These, who were later
known to be called the werebeasts, roam the forests mostly in their human
form.  It was later found that when in danger, or when the rush of
adrenaline excited them, their hidden powers were released, and they
transformed into the beast they were blessed as.  While as the beast, the
human would gather greater strength.  

Although there are only a handfull of werebeasts roaming the lands, their
numbers are steadily climbing, and Gaia's gift will once again be safe from
all harm.  
~

Scribe Voignar Fasin~
Jhaerek the Traitor, Vol 1.~
South of the Hall of War, west of the lively stream, lies a small
forest.  The forest floor is very strange in that there is little dead 
or decaying leaves on the ground.  You can see the dirt on the ground 
clearly enough to spot a few ants crawling about.  Several centipede 
infested trees are lying about in front of you.  The forest generates 
a very calm and serene setting.
 
Beyond the forest... is the darkness.  It is almost pitch black there. 
You can hear water dripping in the background - echoing in the 
distance.  The damp moisture feels like an atmosphere of a large cave. 
You notice that the ground is unusually hard and pieces of stalegmites 
litter the ground.
 
In the darkness stands a giant figure.  Nine feet off the ground, he 
towers above the figures of common men and women.  The giant's eyes 
are wide with fear.  On his chest is branded the sign of a traitor. It 
is the sign of a black cromos.  Once branded, the hapless victim will 
be scorned for life and kicked out of giant society.  If he seeks to 
return, death is his only reward.
 
The giant's name is Jhaerek the Traitor, but many of the dwarven 
societies, including mountain dwarfs, call him Jhaerek the Savior ...
 
(to be continued)
~

Scholar Voignar Fasin~
Lerant the Ranger, Vol. 1.~
The woods are thick and wild in the place where he lives.  The fresh 
oaken smell of the forest trees and recently dried leaves on
the earthen floor swirl to form a scent found only in such a lively 
nature setting.  Tremendous oaks sprawl everywhere and under their 
broad leaves hide many creatures of light and darkness alike.  Many 
battles the forest has seen, and many more will come to bother its 
peace and calm.
 
A trading post stands at the Crossroads to the Wilderness.  And in 
that post lives a creature, Lerant.  Ages ago, Lerant was known as a 
mighty ranger, protecting innocent druids and cuddling mighty leopards 
and mammoths.  But now... now, he built a simple shacke, haggling for 
a shiny coin, selling a deerskin, a side of a boar, and at times an 
infamous dark red potion - a family recipe.  Looking at Lerant, one 
will see that the years of wandering have left the ranger hardened and 
strong, but his soft side was once prominent and quite well known to 
the mountain dwarves.
 
If asked about why he left his days of glory and battle, Lerant will 
simply smile.  Smile and nod, unable to say a word.  At times, a tear 
will fall from his eye fallen on the barren earth, sprouting a tiny 
plant.  If pressed with the question, Lerant will frown.  Two names 
will leave his lips... "Jhaerek"... and ... "The Gem Master."
 
(to be continued)
~

Herald Livana Arianwen~
Emmoth of the Galeb Duhr ~
This creature of rock, soil, and moss is as massive and wizened 
as the Dragon's Teeth Mountains in which his clan resides. The 
passage of time is only marked upon his stony visage as the slow 
and gradual erosion of wind and rain. Though with sentience, his 
emotions are marked, as well, by a heavy brow or arrangement of 
cracks which serve as mouth. It is not the ravages of time that 
have molded a subtle, steady anger in his onyx eyes, but the 
ravages of progress upon the lands of Mother Gaia. It was she 
who lovingly gathered the waters from the River of Life, and 
poured it upon the very stones on the ground. With this blessed 
liquid, the Boulder-men, as primitive cultures have called them, 
became animated and breathed the essence of Gaia. Since their 
creation, these sentient monuments to nature have existed in 
hills, plains, canyons, valleys, and forests, forever watching and 
protecting the purity of their homes. But with the coming of the 
Awakened Ones, as the Galeb Duhr calls any not created by Gaia 
herself, the Boulder-men have shunned all other races and now 
few are ever seen. However, Mother Gaia, weakened and 
angered by the raping of her creation, whispered a calling into 
the winds for her children to rise and restore her. Being eternal 
observers, all of the Galeb Duhr had no will to fight and act as a 
whole, except one. Emmoth heeded her cries to return the world 
to a pure state without cities and their corrupt nobility and 
without the twisted beings of Light and Taint, as he views them 
all perversions of her will.
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
The Siren Rina~
Acknowledgements: 
Rina, for being kind enough to tell me her story
Father, for teaching me to expand on creativity
And to that special someone who is in all our hearts
 
Many of you may or may not heard of the race of Sirens, for here
published in the very library is a tome bearing the name of "Sora- Those of
the Siren" by Lady Banston.  However, this is a story of Rina, also a Siren,
who sheds a bit of light on the lives of the Siren in their way of secluded
life.
 
West of our land of Aabahran are two islands, of approximately the same
size.  One, composed of mainly forestland, belongs to the Siren.  The other,
mainly flatland, belongs to the Seran.  The Siren are a race of woman, and
the Seran, a race of males.  In most of people's eyes, the two are born with
highly attractive features, although, Rina would say they are not, and most
everyone else is "normal". 
 
Once every year the Seran come to the Siren island from their flatlands
to reproduce.  They are met with an opposition called "wraithes" in order to
mate.  If the Seran fails to win the battle, the wraith continues to burn a
Siren's forest until she can hide no more, and then plant their seed of
offspring within.  Thus, more wraiths are born unto the island.  However, if
the Seran wins, two children are born; one male, and one female.  It is then
at the age of five when the child Seran grows his wings and flies to the
flatland island, before his mature desires settle in. 
 
For a Siren, the hunger for the flesh of Man is quite powerful.  It is
the same for the Seran, only they hunger for the flesh of a woman.  The
Siren or Seran would lure them into a secluded area, and then devour their
helpless victim.  Although, the flesh is not a supplementory factor to their
diet, only a powerful desire.  For Rina, this unnecessary pull for the man's
flesh has built a guilt on her for years, and she came to Aabahran in hopes
of taming such.
 
At first arriving to Aabahran, Rina was a ranger who was always alert. 
Her passion for the flesh was unchain'd, and was a very present danger for
those who would be lured.  In stepping into the transition of becoming a
Druid, the starving thirst was put at bay, and her taste of violence was
placed a few notches below.  No more startled awakenings, no need for such a
high alert.  More peace has come into the life of Rina.
~

Academician Livana Arianwen~
The Lunar Elves~
Stories are best told by those who have lived them. This is why I have 
chosen to publish an account of my own kind as told to me by the High 
Priest Lallinthera:
 
---------------------------------------------------------------
In myth and folklore almost doomed to be forgotten, like much else, 
there is the tale of the Lunar Elves, otherwise known as the Lunari. 
 
In a time many modern elves may call primitive, their society paid 
tribute to the goddess of the moon, consort of the mighty Yaegar. But 
just as Aabahran is governed by a triad of nocturnal celestial bodies, 
the nature of the goddess and her dominion is also multi-faceted, 
presiding over healing & love, death & loss, and magic & illusion. To 
her, mid-wives prayed for healing their patients; philosophers prayed 
for mystic knowledge; mourners prayed for peaceful passage of the 
recently departed; maidens prayed for their long-awaited loves; and 
most importantly, priestesses prayed for a glimpse of prophecy and 
destiny. 
 
In the heavenly realm of the gods, a powerful demonic entity shrouded 
in vellum crossed into the province of Yaegar and his mistress when 
the barriers of reality were at its thinnest. (As it is prone to do, every 
tenth millennium.) Upon his arrival, he coveted and pursued the moon 
goddess until she concealed herself in the only location the Chaos 
Demon's eyes could not penetrate: the womb of a mortal, elven 
woman. Upon birth, the child did not know her divine self, confused in 
her corporeal mantle of flesh. In time, the Demon was to know defeat 
and Yaegar searched endlessly for his lost beloved. However, the 
stars, the eternal observers, spoke to him revealing the fate of his 
goddess. Invisible, he descended into the mortal world and hid the 
Mirror of Illusion in a lake that was frequented by the elven vessel of 
the goddess. Upon looking on her reflection in the water, her sight 
pierced the veil of flesh to her true divine self. Thus, Yaegar was 
reunited with his celestial consort. Yet for times to come, a mortal elf 
touched with the features of the original lunar elf will be born randomly 
with generations far between each appearance. 
 
Many variations exist of this myth and many more skeptics of it exist 
with the passing of time. Most of these disbelievers attribute the birth of 
a child of fair skin and platinum hair to the same phenomenon that 
presides over the birth of twins, albeit much rarer. These cynics see 
nothing exceptional in these elves save that they have a more fragile 
constitution and a natural propensity towards magic. However, the 
oldest of the elves believe that the appearance of a Lunar elf holds 
great significance. It is those who holds faith in this ancient tale that 
say mighty Greginsham fell to the orcs upon the death of a Lunari, and 
since then no other has been born until now. It is impossible to discern 
if the lives of the Lunari are shaped by actual destiny or by the power 
of belief and maybe even delusion.
~

Encyclopedia Exoterica~ 12
Academician  Ashalind Madderson~
Things to Ponder~
1.  You see only your shadow when you turn your back to the light. 
2.  It is wiser for the lame not to break his crutches upon the head 
     of his enemy. 
3.  It is the honor of the murdered that he is not the murderer. 
4.  All limits are self imposed.  
5.  It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead for the rest 
     of your life. 
6.  Since the house is on fire let us warm ourselves. 
7.  After the game the king and the pawn go in the same box. 
8.  Truth is what you create it to be. 
9.  If the going gets too rough you are in the wrong place.
10. You can no more win a war than you can win an earthquake. 
11. When you run out of rope tie a knot in the end and hang on.
12 .A closed mouth gathers no feet.
13. Peackocks and roosters and other birds of prey know that kicking 
     and gouging and backstabbing are certain ways to the top. Are 
       you a bird?
14. Start by letting go of something stale and keep going.
15. Be prepared, aware but not paranoid.
16. Self examination is the soul's best medicine.
17. Natural means iresistably attractive imperfection.
18. Holding information does not improve it it merely clouds 
     the mind.
19. A light heart gathers no angst.
20. Too much loving is barely enough.
~

Scribe Sereniel Quis~
Faces of Thera~
A sampling of the dedicatory songs of Sereniel Quis.
 
'Domaris'
- A dedication to my brother Sarrat Vonyeleta and his wife Domaris.
 
A Ranger is trained to hunt
To fade into the trees
To track a griffyn across the sky
To smell danger on a warm, summer breeze
 
But a Ranger hunt a Ranger?
How is that to be?
How, if the prey is the fair Domaris
And the hunter, Halfling Sarrat, waitng upon bended knee?
 
For her charms had him ensnared
Surer than any faerie spell
And as she'sa around his trails came
Sarrat, with her, deeply in love fell
 
To catch her, though
Aye, that was the trick
To catch the Ranger, and hold her
Without allowing her to escape, back into the thick
 
So he had waited and waited
And waited
And waited
And waited
 
And finally, when she in a purty Elfin gown
In front of him stepped
He lept out!
And tackled her to intercept
 
To catch a Ranger unawares
Is a rare chance
But the Halfling Ranger, with his skill
Did his fair lady romance
 
And as the romance grew
Into affection warm and secure
Was I given leave their song to sing
That their love may everlasting endure.
 
 
'Papa'
- A gift from his surrogate daughter.
 
Brick by brick, stone by stone
One atop the other
So easy to see, it's so easy to see
A chip, chip in the mortar
 
So alone, you say.  So cold, you say.
This one alike no other
Not so easy to see, really hard to see
How he could be a father
 
Not to me, I say.  Not at all, I say.
Not this one behind the mortar
Can you not see, is it that hard to see
Why I'd become his daughter?
 
Duty 'tis there.  And reserve, there, too.
As he looks toward his daughter
But if you look, you'll see, really look, you'll see
In his eyes, eyes there is laughter.
 
Love and warmth and care and concern
Within those eyes of laughter
And if you're lucky, you'll see, lucky as me, you'll see
A strength to guide you hereafter.
 
So farewell to the brick and the stone and the wall
Look through that chip, chip in the mortar
And on the other side, you'll see, not a surprise, you'll see
The daughter standing next to her Tower.
 
 
'Wind Carrier'
- The story of Band of Light member Kylthioras Ardent.
 
That the Winds might carry my voice
Breathless, haunting through the Therian night
Sing I now of Their champion
An Elven-son, Paladin of the Light
 
The song of a shattered boy, hiding in shadows.
Destiny unsettled by the West tempestuous Wind.
Fearing the dark Gabriel, but not submitting
That he might into the Light ascend.
 
The South Wind, e'er tranquil, e'er warm
Does his coming of age contain
In Sanctuary schooled in war and legend
By the Father, Silver Paladin, who must his son train.
 
The child-man, his breath on the East Wind caught
Chosen of the Winds, son of prophesy
Such young shoulders to bear such burdens
His life forfeit to the Winds' decree.
 
The final Wind sings of that not seen
The singing of the blade
As it clashes in righteous combat
Thundering from the North, the long-awaited Crusade
 
Long roads await this child of fate
And the Winds may seem bitter cold
But as my voice, its destination finds
Will his story be ne'er more untold.
 
 
'Rest'
-  In conclusion, a dedication to my mentor Herald Eldrigal 
Shrythara.  (A note about the music: The accompaniment is a 
melodic arrangement of the High Elven 'Ihril Ir'inia'.)
 
Wearying, isn't it
This great world of ours?
Long dusty roads, tumultous waters
Thousands of steps to the tops of the towers
 
Wearying, isn't it
The ignorance of this land?
So brutal-cold, so indolently blind
An hourglass emptied of its sand
 
Wearying, isn't it
That driving need?
Knowledge intoxifying, madd'ning
Ne'er satisficing your intellectual's greed
 
Wearying, aren't they
Duty's constant demands?
A prisioner's dilemma, power at a cost
The Master subject to Responsibility's commands
 
Amazing, isn't it
That you love this hell?
Smile unfettered by a lifetime's demands
Your soul youthful 'neath that icy shell
 
 
But wearying, isn't it
To hear your song sung?
To look back at the years, your dreams, those endless leagues
And know that you have only just begun...
 
~

Scholar Irpel Brpel~
The Mysterys of the Tarot~
Temperance:

When the bard draws Temperance, the magic of the fortune grants a small
boost of health energy into the receiver.  This tarot affect lasts for an
entire day.  

Wheel of Fortune:

When the bard draws the Wheel of Fortune, a random affect may ensue, but it
is a small shift in the status of the receiver.  This tarot lasts for half a
day, and usually affects luck.  

High Priestess:

When the bard draws the High Priestess, the receiver will be blessed with
wisdom, by a reasonably large amount.  The affect of this card lasts for an
entire day.  

Magician:

When the bard draws the Magician, the receiver will be blessed with a gift
of inelegance.  This affect will last for a good whole day.  

Strength:

This card does exactly what it's called; It adds to the beneficiary's
strength by a small amount, and it lasts for a whole day.  

Emperor:

Like others, this card, when drawn, will bestow a small boost of luck upon
the receiver.  Besides this, it will increase the fortunes of one, and
literally allow the beneficiary to spot gold here and there, instantly
adding this money to ones wealth.  The card foretells that every few hours
or so, the beneficiary will spot a lone pile of money, reaching to at least
500 gold pieces worth, to be exact.  This also lasts an entire day, which
can be very useful for one short on money.  

Fool: One of the lesser appreciated tarots, Fool places a heavy burden upon
the victim, lowering the dexterity, and making it more difficult to hull
heavy things around.  Unfortunately, the punishments of this card last an
entire day as well.  

Lovers:

One of the most incredible luck enhancing fortunes, or blessing in the
realms for that matter, is contained in Lovers card.  This affect lasts for
an entire day, boosting anyone's luck to most assuredly the max it could
get.  

Star:

The Star enchants ones ability to defend magical attacks in some small way. 
The stars in the heavens also begin to twinkle in the eyes of the
beneficiary.  This tarot lasts for an entire day.  

Hanged Man:

The victim of this card looses luck, almost entirely.  This affect lasts an
entire day.  

Moon:

This tarot will enchant the receiver with more accuracy, while lowering the
damage dealt from the blows.  It lasts an entire day.  

Sun:

Similar to Moon, but swapped: the Sun increases the amount of damage dealt,
while the accuracy lowers.  

Death:

One of the most feared tarots, the death card gives the unlucky victim is
given 100 hours to arrange his things, and bid farewell to loved ones, and
deal with other, random affairs.  When those 100 hours diminish, death falls
upon the bearer of this wretched card, killing him instantly.  

World:

The World card is the most fortunate draw, blessing the lucky beneficiary
with several enhancements, such as accuracy, and damage.  These are just
examples of the many wonders World bestows.  

Hermit:

This card will prevent other beings from tagging along with the victim,
leaving his travels in solitude.  This lasts an entire day.  

Tower:

The lucky person whom is granted the blessing of this card obtains a small
boost of connotation.  This boost lasts for one day, exactly.  

Empress:

One of the less enjoyable tarot fortunes, Empress will slowly and silently
drain the gold from ones pocket, causing it to vanish into to nothing. 
Sadly, it lasts for an entire day, reducing the victim's gold by about 300
every few hours.  

Justice:

An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth; This card may be good or bad, in
what way, only the receiver may decide.  
~

Scribe Olguf~
Pelting Problem~
Dis writkens called Pelting Problem.  Dis is bout dat young man, in
Emerlk Foresk.  You mite know ub him as village idiot.  Him not always known
as dat.  Him was smartk lad wif whole lif aheab of him.  His story begin
when him was ten year old.  Him was lik all boys at dat age, always habin
mischif and truble not far behind him.  Him always spit and put dirtk in dat
well in de square.  Him always throw stick at Olguf.  Him lik to pull
Maddie's hair.  Dat always make her mad.  Him just a pest.  One day while
Olguf sit on stump and talk wid Maddie, we see him go into dem wuds with
hand full ub rocks.  Olguf ask him whut him doin wif dem rocks, but him just
tell Olguf to shuts up, and throw a rock and run.  Will dat rock miss Olguf,
but hit Maddie in her head.  Her start to kry in pain.  So Olguf ran to
where dat young lad enter dem wuds.  Dim wuds scare Olguf, it dark and
strange.  Bout dat time him see dat boy in bushes.  Olguf bout to go obber
and give him gud whippin but him notisk someting.  Him was throwing roks
toward dim witckes.  He wud throw one, den duck so dem not see him.  Olguf
watch dis go on for bout ten minukes.  Den bout dis time, Olguf see Aud
catch dat mischif maker.  She start sreamin and kacklin while she grab him
up out dem bushes by his arm.  Well dat boy kickin and flailing his leg,
while Aude drag him to her udder sisters.  Hela spoke up and say you lik
throw roks huh?  You tank you real smartk and funny hitkin us wid dem rocks?
Hela den shake him and say speak up.  Well dat boy to skared to talk and him
just wet de frunt ub his clothes.  All three witckes just laugh.  Gertude
speak up and say, lets teach him about dangers ub messin wid us witckes. 
All three start draggin him towards dare pot.  Olguf thought dem was bout to
cook dat boy or sumfin.  Aude had his leg, Gertrude had udder leg, and Hela
had his arms and day pull him ober dare pot.  Den dem all let go and him
suspend over dat pot and start rotatin.  Well dat boy start yellin and
krying, and say him sorry.  Olguf jus lay dare not sure whut to do.  Den
while dat boy rotatkin around, Aude grab some dust and blow it ackros him. 
Den all three chant togedder.  CHURN DIS POT UB WITCKES BREW, BUBBLE OVER
INTO VEW.  TEACH DIS BOY A PAINFUL LESSON, DAT WITCKES DONT LIK MISCHIF
MESSIN.  Dem say dat bout five times and dat pot spew on dat young boy. 
Will dis scare Olguf haf to deaf and him crawl back out dem wuds.  

Olguf go bak to where Maddie was.  Her hab big bump on her head but das all.
I told her whut I see and her say we shud go help dat lad.  So I gadder some
amnikals and we all go back into dem wuds.  We walk around and bump into dat
boy.  Him droolin and mumling.  Eyes wide open.  Dim witchkes cacklin and
laphin in dem shadows.  So Olguf pick dat boy up and take him near dat well
and set him nearby, while I go tell his mudder Marsia.  I tell her, and she
run to dat spot.  Him still shaking, drooling, and ramlblin.  Many doctors
come luk at dat boy ober de years and dem still can not figure out how to
snap dat boy out his kurrent statke.  

One day Olguf ask dem witckes about whut dem did.  Dem say dat him will be
dat way till dem witckes deside to break dat spell.  
~

Scribe Olguf~
Blood Fud~
Dis writekns called Blood Fud.  It about Farmer Griff and Farmer Joe.  

Anyone who hab trabeled Thera hab seen Griff and Joe.  Boaf are farmers and
boaf grow dare own crops now.  Dis use not be de case.  Griff and Joe use to
farm togedder.  Bruder and Bruder growing crops and split ebertang fifty
fifty.  Den one day dis man approach Joe and say Joe I gib you 200,000 gold
coin if sell me 200 dim famous big sacks you hab.  Joe tank to himself dat
double whut him and Griff usually get for dem sacks.  Also, dims Griffs
sacks.  So him tell Griff him made big sell and dat him need 200 sacks made
by Maddie, Jim, and bof dare wifes in a week.  Him say dat man pay the
100,000 gold already.  Now, only Joe know him lied and got 200,000 gold for
dat order.  So him split 100,000 gold wif Farmer Griff, so Griff not know
him get tricked.  So Joe took dat extra 100,000 gold and hide it.  Later dat
night at supper, Joe let it slip to his wife dat him had made extra 100,000
gold dat him not share wif his brudder.  Dis upset Joes wife, and she tell
him dat is not how brudders act.  Joe not care, and tell her shut up, and
yell, and threatin her.  Joe wife kry and kry.  Her go to town to hab Joe
arrested for threatin her.  While going to town her had bedder idea.  She
decide to take dat extra money plus all his odder muney for dem sacks and
take it to Griff and tell Griff whut Joe do.  Griff was in field farminking
and him seen Joe's wife climbin up dat mountainside.  So him yell dat his
wife gone to town.  Joe's wife say dat ok and she really wantk to speak to
Griff.  She told Griff eberytang.  Well Griff glad Joe's wife tell him whut
happen and him was inraged bout Joe yelling and threatken his own wife.  So
Griff tell Joe's wife not to kry and dat her not need to cry.  Him also say
dat Joe should neber yell at her but Joe not love her.  Griff tell her bout
dis times Joe go to des udder women in town.  Joe's wife, who just come to
gib Griff whut rightfully his, now learn her husban be haben affairs wif
odder people.  Her was debistated.  Dis make her kry more.  So Griff being
cuncearned man, hug Joe's wife to comfort her.  Bout dat time, Joe show up
at Griffs mad, and see dis hug.  Joe go to yelling and screamin at Griff. 
Him accuse Griff of stealing his wife.  Griff scream bak dat him have his
own pudry wife and dat Joe a liar and dat him try to rip him off.  So Joe
yell dat him was glad he rip him off since he now know dat Griff try to
steal his wife.  Bout dat time Joe punch Griff in his nose and brok it. 
Griff grab shobel and bash Joe's leg and break dat.  It wus awful.  From dat
day on Griff and Joe neber spoke again.  Dem brudders hab not spoke for five
years.  

Olguf lik to tank Maddie for telling Olguf dis story.  See Maddie Griffs
dauder, and was outside sitkin on a stump and hear and saw dat whole tang.  
~

Historian Zeyrsi~
Song of the Academy~
*Song of the Academy*
 
Ye that pipe and ye that play,
Ye that through your hearts today,
Know the knowledge of today!
Come in thought and join our throng,
Delight in teaching here among
A presence which is not to be put by.
 
Behold the teacher among his friends,
With light upon him from students eyes.
See at his feet some plan or chart,
Hear the expierience from his mortal life.
To dialogues of buisness, love or strife,
And with new joy and pride
Which we are toiling all our lives to find.
Come intellectuals, and be master o'er students.
 
=Zeyrsi the Songsmith of Aabahran=
~

Scribe Salana Orvanof~
The Cry~
He stands alone at the top of the hill
And sings his mournful cry,
His mate and cubs are missing
He's not certain why.
 
He had been out hunting
Was gone for only a day,
And hurried back with empty jaws
So scarce now was their prey.
 
He wasn't gone long
Eager to get home,
But the den was cold and empty
And he sensed something was wrong.
 
The smell of man was everywhere
With footprints in the dirt,
And blood shed from his family
He knew they had been hurt.
 
He sat and waited day by day
With hopes they would return,
There wasn't much he could do
Except quietly sit and yearn.
 
Why would man come all this way
To hunt and shoot them down,
To interrupt their quiet lives
When no harm had been done?
 
Their territory plainly marked
And not once did they stray,
For they would rather starve to death
Than to get in man's way.
 
The smell of chickens, cows and sheep
Were so tempting at times,
But instincts warned not to hunt them
Or they would lose their lives.
 
And so they lived a quiet life
Existing on small game,
Careful it was only wildlife
And nothing man had tamed.
 
So he could find no reason
For the blood shed on that day,
So peacefully they lived here
So far out of man's way.
 
Maybe they'd be coming back
His cubbies and his mate,
Wolves are mated once for life
So he would sit and wait.
 
That was many moons ago
And they have not come back,
But he will not stop hoping
For the reunion of his pack. 
 
He now knows men are murderers
But still does not know why,
And every night he climbs his hill
And sings his mournful cry.
~

Scholar Olguf~
Thieberous Thoughts~
Dis story jus happen da udder day.  It about da price of thiebery and
tanking about taking udder peoples stuff.  I wuz outside Herald place and I
smell sumfin gud.  Olguf luk and luk but not see much, but smell dis smell
still.  Finally Olguf see dis fire goin wif sumting kooking.  It a yummy
rabbit roast.  Olguf tummy growl lik angry amnikal.  Him jus hab to hab it. 
Olguf notisk som man near by, and dat probably his fude.  Olguf figure him
can get it when dat man not look.  Suddenly Olguf two feetks from dat rabit
and WHAM dat man turn and see Olguf.  Him yell at Olguf, but Olguf grab dat
rabbit and try to run.  Dat man jump on Olguf and begin whappin Olguf. 
Olguf try to shak dat man off, but him jus kep comin.  By ackident Olguf
claw dat man and him fell ober bleedin.  Olguf not mean to.  Olguf sorry... 
Please forgib Olguf I say.  It too late dat man no more.  Olguf drop dat
rabbit, and run back to Emerealk Foresk.  Him shamed.  Him tanking bout
kiwwing himself.  Him not mean to do dat, it jus happen.  Olguf get to
Emerald Foresk and him hear Maddie kryin.  Olguf go ober dare to talk to
Maddie one las time, before him go.  I descide dat I run away and lib in far
way place, and tell Maddie dat him explorin, and not tell her truff.  So
Olguf say hey Maddie, and she jump off dat stump and hug Olguf like neber
before.  She say she hab been tanking bout Olguf and worry about him.  Olguf
tank to himself why Maddie wurry bout Olguf.  So dat hab Olguf perplex now
so him not leb on trip yet.  Him hab to figure why Maddie wurry.  Olguf did
go back to dat man and him was ok.  Him was near de end of his life.  Him
was near def but some gnomes go by and take him to dockter.  Him eben share
som dat rabbit wif Olguf.  
~

Herald Salana Orvanof~
A Perplexing Perplexion~
This is a story told to me by Mircea.  I once gazed from above at a
rabbit chewing on leaves in the valley.  It bounced from one spot to another
gnawing and nibbling.  It's life was indeed perplexing.  I watched as it
hopped and ate.  I found myself wondering what the rabbit thought of while
it ate and hopped about.  What did it think about while it lived out its
days?  Where did it go during the days?  What things did it see?  Does it
even notice things like that or even care?  I found myself holding a leaf
and wondering does the leaf feel the pain of being eaten by the rabbit.  If
so, did the rabbit know the pain it was causing the leaf?  Would the
afterlife remind the rabbit's soul of its wrongdoing?  Did the rabbit have a
soul?  So many questions I wanted answers to, from the view of the rabbit or
the leaf.  The view of an all-knowing being as myself, knew nothing of the
rabbit or the leaf.  So I followed the rabbit.  I watched it go from place
to place eating.  I watched as a wolf seen it and chased it without victory.
I watched as it napped in a mass of grass on the banks of a creek.  I found
myself thinking about the dreams of a rabbit while it sleeps.  Does a rabbit
dream?  The more I thought of the rabbit, the more I wanted to be the rabbit
and the more I envied the rabbit.  How dare the actions of the rabbit cause
me to envy his leaf chewing.  

It was at that point, when I envied him the most, the wolf from earlier
finally caught him and bit his head off.  
~

Academician  Eldrigal Shrythara~
The Calendar of Aabahran~
____________________________________________________________________
|                                                                    |
|              -)*(-   THE CALENDAR OF AABAHRAN   -)*(-              |
|                                                                    |
|                         Days of the Week                           |
|  Bull   Deception   Thunder   Freedom   Greater Gods    Sun   Moon |
|                                                                    |
|      The Spring               Nature                Futility       |
| Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo |
|  1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7 |
|  8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 |
| 15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21 |
| 22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28 |
| 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35 |
|                                                                    |
|      The Dragon               The Sun               The Heat       |
| Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo |
|  1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7 |
|  8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 |
| 15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21 |
| 22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28 |
| 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35 |
|                                                                    |
|       Battles            The Dark Shades          The Shadows      |
| Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo |
|  1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7 |
|  8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 |
| 15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21 |
| 22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28 |
| 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35 |
|                                                                    |
|   The Long Shadows     The Ancient Darkness       The Great Evil   |
| Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo |
|  1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7 |
|  8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 |
| 15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21 |
| 22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28 |
| 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35 |
|                                                                    |
|      The Winter           The Winter Wolf        The Frost Giant   |
| Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo   Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo |
|  1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7    1  2  3  4  5  6  7 |
|  8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 |
| 15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21   15 16 17 18 19 20 21 |
| 22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28   22 23 24 25 26 27 28 |
| 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35   29 30 31 32 33 34 35 |
|                                                                    |
|               The Old Forces           The Grand Struggle          |
|            Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo       Bu De Th Fr GG Su Mo         | 
|             1  2  3  4  5  6  7        1  2  3  4  5  6  7         |
|             8  9 10 11 12 13 14        8  9 10 11 12 13 14         |
|            15 16 17 18 19 20 21       15 16 17 18 19 20 21         |
|            22 23 24 25 26 27 28       22 23 24 25 26 27 28         |
|            29 30 31 32 33 34 35       29 30 31 32 33 34 35         |
|____________________________________________________________________|
~

Scholar Olguf~
Ackedemy Tooder for Olguf~
Olguf been busy at ackedemy doing spelling.  Olguf take nudder tesk and
lik furst time, him do great and mak zero.  Dat two zeros.  Him got to be
smarkest in klass.  So Ackedemy tank I shud get a tooder.  Olguf guess dat
lik aprentise so him can teach dat perskin bout being gud speller lik Olguf.
I ask who shud tooder and dem suggesk Maddie since Olguf spen so much time
wiff her.  So Olguf go tell Maddie dat ackedemy want her to be tooder ub
Olguf, and dat Olguf feel weird bout habin to teach Maddie how to spell. 
Maddie jus smile and say "awe Olguf, I hate to tell you dear, but tooder
means".  Den her say ah forgek it, and say her glad to lurn frum Olguf.  Den
Olguf say dat him not deer, but him part udder aminikal.  

Jus den her brudder Jim come up and start laughin and yellin: Hey luk its
Maddie and her furry prince Olguf.  Maddie yell out for Jim to shut up. 
Olguf jus dare wundering what Jim talking bout.  Olguf does hab fur, but him
not royalty.  I guess Maddies fodder hear dis yelling and come to see whut
dat noise is.  Dem him stark yelling get out here Olguf.  Him yell dat him
remember telling Olguf not to be showing his face round Emeralk Foresk.  Dem
Griff charge at Olguf wiff shovel and run Olguf down mounkinside.  Maddie
was running behid us dat whole time yellin and crying.  Maddie mus be sad
cause her not get to lurn to spell gud frum Olguf.  

Finaly, Griff stop chasin Olguf and yell frum distance dat him tired seeing
me round Maddie.  Him yell dat if Olguf not get gone, den sumfin bad gonna
happen to Olguf.  All Olguf doin is whut ackedemy told him to, and teach
Maddie bout spelling.  Him must not want Maddie to me smark lik Olguf.  
~

Scholar Livana Arianwen~
The Moons of Aabahran~
Three celestial bodies dwell in the night sky of Aabahran, each 
named for its inherent traits. Nercuros is dubbed 'the Grey' for 
its barren and scarred landscape. The icy mass of Lysenties 
purifies the solar rays it reflects into an intense white light, and 
the brightness of this moon can even challenge the red sun. 
Dyphrities, the Black, can only be detected with our sight when it 
eclipses another moon as it sneaks in orbit in the shadow of our 
planet. Once each year, Dyphrities reigns over the heavens and 
the True Night occurs. 
 
The relationship and forces of these moons are the source of all 
magic. Each lunar body presides over a particular domain, or 
Prime. Lysenties and Dyphrities represent the Primes of Life and 
Death, respectively. Aligned upon the axis between these two 
moons is the Plane of Nature, representing the constant cycle and 
struggle between the two powers. The massive Nercuros 
maintains the essence of the Prime of Balance. The interaction of 
Lysenties and this Prime creates the Plane of Order. In direct 
opposition is the Plane of Chaos, which derives its power from 
Nercuros and the Prime of Death. It is said that the forces of 
good and evil wane and wax as the distance between the moons 
fluctuates as they travel in their orbits. However, every ten 
thousand years, the lunar bodies form a perfect triad where the 
distance between each is precisely equal. In this configuration, 
their power aligns in such a fashion that a gateway is formed into 
the Nexus, and a war is inevitable between Order and Chaos.
~

The Chronicles~ 5
Academician  Airen Denetheros~
The Chronicles, Vol.1~
Vol.1              * * *                   * * *  Day of the Bull,
                      * *    The Chronicles   * *  29th of the Month of
                       *                       *  The Dragon.
Justice Prevails!                          
  By Historian Zeyrsi
After Kelbik's leaving, the halls          Obituary-
of Justice were thinned out to a           Athelea the Beacon of Hope
remaining five Justices. Among them,          By Academician Airen
Ralos stood above the rest. He stands      In case you have not read
in the face of crime and recruits          the dozens of notes written
the best of Order's followers,             in mourning of Thera's great 
sending panic throughout the               loss, here is a summary of 
underground. With his iron grasp           the events surrounding the
on the streets, his allegiance is          Val Miranian Queen's death.
truly to the Royals of Thera. With         While under the control of
Justice, there is only one vendetta,       Lord Xuthravoth, I, Airen 
that vendetta being against the Nexus.     Denetheros, was manipulated
Recently, many new recruits are being      into becoming an antenna of
given badges of the deputy. So             sorts, through which the
criminals beware, as Order grows and       Lord of Discord could tear
the streets that brisk with crime          open the great Rift and thus
are reformed once again.                   conquer Thera. Yet his plans
                                           were thwarted when Athelea,
Royal Births                               upon hearing her lost child,
   By Academician Eldrigal                 Aynia, calling from through
The royal family of Val Miran will         the Rift, soared skyward
once more be expanding as both the         with the last of Luqin's
Duchess Seiluna and Duchess Isabeau        strength and sealed off the
have announced that they will soon         Rift's tear. Sadly, this
be giving birth. This will be Seiluna's    effort also destroyed the
second child, and her first with her       late Queen, leaving the City
new husband, Lord Athraeil of Val          of Light without a great
Miran. For Isabeau and her husband,        figure head. May Athelea
this is the third.                         rest well, wherever she is.
 
Olguf's Advice
  By Scholar Olguf
Dat village bully come to Olguf and say Maddie jus ignore me, how do I 
prove to her I am her boyfrend and she my girlfrin, Dat bully say he 
run off ebery person dat come by. So him wif Maddie by defaulk. But 
Maddie not see it like dat, her slap young hotblud and yell at him to 
get way. Hotblud say her playin hard to get but he is tired of her 
games. Maddie say hotblud not his boyfriend if he was last tang on 
world. So bully say him gonna forse Maddie to realize her below to him. 
So dat bully ask Olguf how to get Maddie to lub him. Well Olguf hurd 
nuff of dat and tell him dat Maddie hate him and he always make her 
cry. Bout den dat boy try to push Olguf down while saying tangs like 
you got tangs to say about dis and whut business is dis of you. Well 
Olguf not take dat and tell him to be hushin. So him lunge at Olguf and 
Olguf slam him around the ground and sling him into dat side of dat 
well. So I guess Olgufs firsk attempt at advice fail.
 
Chief Editor: Academician Airen Mirelle.
*If you have any announcements your request to be printed (marriages, 
births, deaths, etc.), write a note to Herald or myself.
~

Academician  Airen Denetheros~
The Chronicles, Vol.2~
Vol.2              * * *                   * * *  Day of Thunder,
                      * *    The Chronicles   * *  17th of the Month of
                       *                       *  The Shadows.
The Royal Watch
 By Academician Eldrigal                      Olguf's Advice
Patriarch Namaste of Rheydin has                By Scholar Olguf
announced his engagement to the Lady          Bryntryst approakes Olguf    
Kiyana, Acolyte of the Savant Tower.          frun up abuve and say   
No date has yet been set.  This will          Olguf I need abvice.  
be the second marriage for both parties.      Olguf blush and studder       
Please wish them all happiness in their       dat Bryntryst all knowin
life together.                                and Olguf not gib him 
The Royal House of Val Miran is pleased       advice.  Olguf not equal 
to announce the return to their halls of      and fraid to eben talk 
Oog, former king of that city.  His           before all dem heads.  So 
retirement led to the ascension of Queen      Olguf do all whut him
Athelea, and now he returned to serve the     know and bow down.
city in whatever way he is able.              Bryntryst whap Olguf and
Duchesses Isabeau and Seiluna of Val          yell get up, get up, I
Miran have announced that for the present     really needin vice.  So
time they will share a joint regency of       Olguf stand up and 
that city, until a suitable period of         apolige.  Again Bryntryst
mourning for the late queen has passed.       whap Olguf.  Dis time  No 
No word on how long will be deemed suitable.  when him swing at Olgufs
It has been announced that Lord Bartog of     fur alot dat sand frum
Rheydin has wed on Streta in what might be    Olguf got all obber
described as a traditional dwarven ceremony,  Bryntryst.  Well
after a whirlwind courtship.  Though the      Bryntryst not lik dat
groom showed a trace of pre-wedding anxiety   sand on him and him call  
common in those who approach the altar of     Olguf dirky fleabag. 
matrimony, the bride was able to drive the    Olguf say it jus sand but
fears from his head, and he went to his       Olguf still sowwy.
wedding in what some might describe as a      Bryntryst yell somefin
state of euphoria.  Please wish the couple    about nebermind stupid  
all happiness when you see them on the        beask or someting. Olguf 
street.                                       really not hear gud, his
                                              head was rinking.  Dem
In Defense Of Thieves (What Makes Em Tick)    Bryntrsyt poofed into
  By Scholar Brysingel                        fums and Olguf not see  
 Who were they? Rhoden and Ghead call         him.  Dem bolt ub
themselves the Twin Tyrants. They are         lighting hit Olguf and
convinced the Gods are amused by their        dat sand stop itckin for
antics. They told me they robbed for gain,    a bit.  Olguf still
and usually killed their victims (I made      wunder whut adbice
sure that they knew I had nothing of value).  Bryntryst want.  
Rhoden told me he had been a thief from 
infancy and had run away with a band of nomads apprenticed to a master 
thief. I asked about their parents, and Ghead said, 'My parents were both 
killed by hunters for their scales. I was pierced by a lance, and awoke, 
weak, to see my mothers body stripped of her scales, bloody, and covered 
in dirt.'  The thought was obviously one of great pain for him and the 
two proceeded to practice on themselves and even your intrepid reporter 
when she inadvertantly took the weakening agent from the creatures he 
killed. I have been promised the story of their meeting but that will be 
a future article.
 
New Champion                                              
Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls!  I, MRENKUS DEMAAR, would like
to declare a NEW CHAMPION!  What kind of champion, you ask?  Why,
CHAMPION of the "Speed of the Gods, Fastest Feet in Thera!"  That is
correct, I have been beaten in a foot race by the man known as SSLANTHE!
Put your hands together and clap for the NEW CHAMPION!  Be sure to
CONGRATULATE him at the earliest opportunity! As such, I, MRENKUS DEMAAR, 
am no longer the Speed of the Gods! I no longer have the Fastest Feet in 
Thera!  Please stop addressing me as such.  THANK YOU!
Mrenkus Demaar, ex-Speed of the Gods, ex-Fastest Feet in Thera.
 
*If you have any announcements your request to be printed (marriages, 
births, deaths, etc.), write a note to Herald or myself.
~

Academician  Airen Denetheros~
The Chronicles, Vol.3~
Vol.3              * * *                   * * *  Day of Deception,
                      * *    The Chronicles   * *  30th of the Month of
                       *                       *  The Battle.
Eldrigal's Review: Inns of Aabahran
  Inn of the Last Home- Solace
This charming inn in the distant city on the shores of Lake Crystalmir 
boasts a certain uniqueness, being built as it is around a large tree. 
It's restful atmosphere brings many adventurers looking for a bit of 
rest, but rooms are few and the selection in the common rooms is 
practically non-existent. ***
  The Red Dragon- Rheydin
Smallest of Aabahran's inns, the Red Dragon is famed for the stage in 
it's rear room, where bards from across the land can come to perform 
for Tamara's customers. The rooms are very inexpensive and the 
selection in the common area is first rate. The one drawback of the Red 
Dragon is the rowdy atmosphere. Loud music and frequent fights are the 
order of the day, which is part of the appeal to some. ****
  The White Lion- Val Miran
The largest of Aabahran's inns, and easily the most expensive. The 
rooms are outrageously high, though they are richly appointed. The 
selection of liquors available in the common room are limited and in 
keeping with the high prices of the rooms, though cheap mead is also 
available. Service is spotty, and you occasionally have to chase down 
the hostess to place your orders. **
  Many other places call themselves inns, but they are merely taverns, 
and will be reviewed at a later date. 
 
The Sacred Oak                             Deeds
 By Herald Salana                            By Academician Damia
Composed of Gaia's bravest children,       A Dwarf, which was climbing
the Sacred Oak was formed for one          down a steep hill to get a 
reason: to protect our forests and its     drink from the stream below,
creatures from those set to destroy it.    fell into the water. The Dwarf,
There have been many attempts of           being a terrible swimmer, just
destruction on our forests, but the        like all of their kind are,
Sacred Oak has held strong and defended    splashed about in the water to
it and Mother Gaia. With Lord Kalug        try to keep from drowning. A
guiding us through our everyday            Faerie passed by and saw the
journeys, and the dedicated members of     flailing Dwarf. Pitying him,
the Sacred Oak banding together, we        the Faerie cast a spell,
will be able to stand up and protect       allowing the Dwarf to fly out
what was generously given to us by         of the water. Safe on the shore
Mother Gaia. If one feels they were        the Dwarf noticed a Drow, 
meant to protect Gaia's gift, they         stalking the Faerie with a jar,
should scribe a note to the Sacred Oak,    about to capture her within it.
telling of their plans.                    The Dwarf bashed the Drow once 
                                           and the Drow cried out in
The Rise of the Warmaster?                 surprise. Alerted to the new
 By Scribe Brysingel                         danger, the Faerie flew away.
Once again seeking hunting partners, your  This just goes to show that one
reporter was called to stand alongside     good deed deserves another.
a Warmaster Inductee. As she had been 
seeking a partner for many days, this was a god sent opportunity. Finding 
a third, however, was another matter. Near giving up, finally the 
inductee called upon Charim, the Warlord, for help and they set off. 
Successfully gaining a rank, I was happy but Charim had to leave. Once 
again a Warmaster was called and Kaliyanese joined the group. Between 
fights the smell of sweat and leather was prevalent, as the elder taught 
the youngster a few tricks with holding his weapon, I would like to say, 
how can they be held down then the cabal cooperates like that? I was most 
impressed.
 
Chief Editor: Academician Airen Mirelle.
*If you have any announcements your request to be printed (marriages, 
births, deaths, etc.), write a note to Herald or myself.
~

Academician  Airen Denetheros~
The Chronicles, Vol.4~
Vol.4              * * *                   * * *  Day of Freedom,
                      * *    The Chronicles   * *  11th of the Month of
                       *                       *  Nature.
 
The Tumbled Scales                                Your Horoscope 
  By Academician Airen                            Day of the Moon- 
Lady Avariel, High Protector of the               Keep away from the 
Balance, has fallen from her throne.              indecisive.
But why? The combination of two well-             
timed events contributed to Avariel's             Day of the Bull
fall.  First began what I shall call              Refuse the offer- it 
the Great Upset, in which nearly all              will only bring
Therans went astray from their path of            fruitless hardships. 
Balance, thus throwing the Scales far            
out of proportion. Then Lord Arzaeth,             Day of Deception  
knowing of Lady Avariel's already                 Save your gold for 
fragile state, presented her with the             the times ahead. 
Black Looking Glass, which displays the             
world in distorted lies and half-                 Day of Thunder 
truths. The addition of this item from            Now is the time for 
the Negative Plane destroyed the Lady             revealing secrets.
Avariel's hopes completely, thus                 
convincing her to abandon the little              Day of Freedom
that is left of the Balance. It is in             The longer you wait, 
these darkest of times that we must               the worse it'll be.
gather forth and, through our faith in
the Balance, perhaps we may restore               Day of the Great Gods
that which has been lost.                         Watch the advisor
                                                  closely.
 
                                                  Day of the Sun
Royals In Dispute                                 Happiness is on its
  By Scribe Brysingel                             way.
Well one wonders about the love and compassion, 
certainly none was shown between the two Duchesses of Val Miran. You 
could almost accuse them of hate rather than love. The dunking in the 
pool by Isabeau of her 'sister', Seiluna, certainly looked less than 
friendly. Whilst the hank of hair in Seiluna's hand certainly showed not 
a lot of compassion. One wonders, what is next? Will our royal Duchesses 
take each other apart, or will this all blow over and be as the passing 
breeze in the life of our upstanding royals?
 
Chief Editor: Academician Airen Mirelle.
*If you have any announcements your request to be printed (marriages, 
births, deaths, etc.), write a note to Herald or myself.
~

Academician Livana Arianwen~
The Chronicles, Vol.5~
Vol.5           * * *                   * * *  Eightday,
                   * *    The Chronicles   * *  The 48th of Life,
                    *                       *  442 PC.
 
Khorandain                              The Forsaken People
   By Brakgar Kern                         By Livana Arianwen
Founded shortly preceding the           A new race has crept into
third age of Aabahran, Khorandain       Aabahran from the Forsaken 
is found deep within the Dragon         Lands. Ferals, known for their
Teeth Mountains south of Rheydin.       fury and cruelty, scarcely  
Khorandain was founded by a group       resemble the humans from which
of Dwarven Clerics, and was             theyve descended. After eras  
originally a small, dug out temple      of surviving in the harsh
that later expanded into the            wastelands, they are now a
thriving underground city now           product of the Chaos thriving  
known as Khorandain. It now boasts      in this corrupted area. The 
two temples, of quite an                harsh conditions they have
extravagant size and architecture,      endured have eroded any sense
a bank, a Registry, a stable, and       of kindness, and their
six shops of various natures. The       morality has been compromised
local watering hole, the Dancing        even while their senses are 
Griffon Tavern, owned by a              enhanced. Though they have
particularly impatient Dwarf            come from Miruvhor in ages
named Bregg, can be seen full of        past, ferals returned to a
patrons many a night. Khorandain        more bestial form and now
houses five guildhalls, all which       reject the order of
are open to Dwarves and any other       civilization. For their   
race which qualifies under the          unnatural taint and anarchic
right category.                         disposition, ferals are both
                                        an outcast of civilization and
                                        an outcast of the natural
                                        world.
 
Watchers
   By Daemian Sathyr
The cities of Aabahran, once relatively safe from destruction, now 
fight for the survival of their lifestyle as a new threat makes itself
known. The Watchers, a new cabal dedicated to renewing the world as 
Nature had intended, call their bestial allies to arms in order to lay
waste to the cities of the settlers. The royalty of the cities has
offered generous rewards to those who aid in their defense. Very
little is known of the young Watcher cabal except for their zeal and
purpose.  Occasionally one might find their ilk wandering the forests.
It is unknown yet whether or not they are hostile towards travelers
moving between the cities, but it is advised that those uncertain of
their relations with the Watchers take the caravans or city gates
provided for this purpose.
 
Chief Editor: Academician Livana Arianwen.
*If you have any announcements your request to be printed (marriages,
births, deaths, etc.), write a note to Herald or myself.
~

religion~ 7
Scribe Narnokles~
Religion - Neutrality~
Good and Evil, Law and Chaos.  These things are in constant flux.  It is
the duty to one that walks the Balance to ensure that these extremes do
become too powerful.  Least the Scales will tip, and all that we know and
hold dear will be lost.  It is most difficult, this path, carefully choosing
your every action as to preserve the fragility of the Scales of Balance.
One can only change what one is able to, and the Balance can swing from
moment to moment.  A reminder in this, your friend one day, can be your foe
the next.  We are the Grey.  Definition is not always clear on what to
 
expect, nor to do.  But one must be ever wary of those that wish to disrupt
power to their own favor.  Lady Avariel watches her scales closely, at one
with them.  Should you choose this path, Her wrath is great to those that
claim Equilibrium, yet do not uphold the values she entrusts to us in
preserving the fine line that is the Balance.  The False.  Those that claim
to be of the Balance, yet decide to throw it aside and do as they will. 
Killing as they please, with utter abandon for what the Balance holds dear. 
To do so shall have a short life indeed.  
 
Chron Master Dalamithar Ardigorath
Scourge of the Battlefield
Servant of the Scales
~

Herald Leto Neesa~
The Way of Compassion~
When one wishes to understand the true nature of the Compassionate
Path, there is but one authority on the subject who can speak of its ways. 
Knowing this, I myself did inquire, and was blessed by the presence of
the deity Luqin, who so humbled this woman in her questioning.  His
manner towards myself was one of kindness and care, and I was very
pleased, and truly inspired, by the words he so gave.
 
Luqin did explain to me that compassion itself is a very simple concept,
though it has many layers.  To have compassion, is to love, to have 
compassion, is to have faith.  Faith in your fellow Theran kind.  Love of your
friends, foes, and even a love for strangers on the streets.  Compassion
in its simplest form is to have faith in love, knowing above all else, that
this love is an eternal emotion with no end.  From love, flows like a river of
life, that leads to the many other layers of compassion.  This love, this
compassion, I did ask, should hold for all? Even those who seek my blood, 
even those who wish to remove my head?  I knew the answer before it was 
even given, but I have argued this point before with others, and thought
perhaps my naive nature was too innocent in this subject.  But, I was right, 
and Luqin did smile and confirm.  The truest form of compassion is the love
of all Theran kind, regardless of the situation.  This is where, Luqin did tell
me, that mortal man does lose his faith, and where his brothers in life are
required to share their strength and support, else they may fall from the
love of compassion, and into darkness.  In darkness, he did explain, it
is much more difficult for the light of compassion to shine through.
Not impossible, no, but much more difficult.  It takes a strong heart, a
strong will, and a deep sense of love to return from the brink of shadows.
 
A point Luqin did next make, one that I found great interest in, and one
that in truth I was slightly shocked to realize.  Compassion is something
found in every being.  It comes from the soul, something that can not
be ignored, something that all we Therans do have, in one sense
or another.  To me, Luqin did say, even the darknest of hearts from the
cruelest drow have a soul, and in this soul, though perhaps buried deep
and long forgotten to the drow, compassion can always be found.  I
of course found this somewhat hard to believe, though I would never
disagree with an authority on the subject such as Luqin.  He understood
my doubt, and explained to me that there are many who would fail to
believe such words, but he himself has seen the Pillar of Light, and so
has been witness to every spirit in this land.  This light, he did explain, 
the light of compassion, whether known or not, is truly within every being,
it is only a matter of exposing it, and giving it the support and care needed
to flourish.  It is of course a difficult task, exposing this love, but one
Luqin has great faith in, knowing his true followers are up to the task.
~

Scribe Daemian Sathyr~
Book I: On the One God.~
I realise some might find a fundamental flaw in my writings; If the basis
of faith is to trust the unknown, aren't you spoiling the whole thing by
telling us about it?  Many monks and priests might concur.  However, I hold
a different view.  How can God, He who created us to worship, whish to keep
us ignorant of His nature and will?  To best serve our Sovereign, we must
know the path so we can walk it straight.  We do not know the One's thoughts
or plans though, and that is where our faith lies - giving our bodies and
spirits to His wants without question.  

Our God is a Father, a King, and a Judge.  He is at once benevolent and
harsh, forgiving and damning.  It is in His compassion we find eternal
peace: it is in His wrath we find unbridled torment.  But how do we get on
His "good side?"  It's remarkably simple...  You already are.  Every being
is born through the love of the One (yes, even those who refuse His
existance, for just because they don't remember Him breathing life in to
them doesn't mean it did not happen).  The more important question is "how
do we geto n his 'bad side."  

The True Lord is incredibly forgiving, however those who deliberately and
spitefully ignore His Law incite His anger.  The same goes for those who
commit the same crimes continually, whether they mean to or not, repent or
refuse.  His Law, which shall be outlined in a later volume, are absolute. 
One does not need to be a scholar to follow His wishes, though.  Most are
logical in nature: respect the gifts He's given you, love no god above Him,
respect those of goodly nature and assist whosoever may need it.  Those who
neglect to follow the One's teachings bring Him sorrow, for He cannot help
those who do not accept Him.  Malefactors who do evil deeds to His flock
incite His anger, a terrible anger, and only through strict and often harsh
atonement can they be forgiven.  

The Lord is no favoratist, and loves all equally.  While strife might riddle
your life and hardships dot your path, you must trust in the wisdon of our
One God, and veiw these trials as lessons and oppertunities to become
better, and to better serve ones-self, the populace, and the One.  

The rich have a different plight for, though blessed with monetary gifts,
must overcome the pitfalls of greed and frugality.  The good Lord bequeathed
the rich with treasures so that they might share, and in sharing become
more.  None are born without trial, and none are made any closer to God than
you or I.  

I close with the assertion that the One God has His divine hand in
everything (alas, even the scribing of this work), and that you the reader
are touched by His omnipotent powers even as you sit now.  His loving eyes
are always watching over His people, so rest assured that those who bend to
His wisdom are safe and protected.  

From the pen of Daemian Sahthyr, Scribe of Herald, Theologian of Aabahran.  
~

Scribe Daemian Sathyr~
Book II: On the Church~
Every great being requires at least one chronicler and interpreter.  The
same goes for the greatest of beings, the One God.  The church is His
scribe.  It is this establishment's duty to organize and provide to the
masses the wishes, Laws, and lessons of God.  Further, they are to record
the deeds of noteworthy servants of the One, to be used as examples for the
people.  So, as members and appendages of this institution, it is our duty
to bring to the non-believers the word of God.  

The Church might be viewed as the corporeal representation of the Lord.  As
His Eyes they watch and record our realm for Him.  As His Voice they deliver
His messages and proclomations to the people.  As His Hands they deliver
punishments and praise to those deserving.  We, the servants of God and the
Church should be counted lucky to so give our Lord's will in this world.  

Proclomations from the Church should be strictly adhered to by all, for it
must be God delivering such proclomations for the protection of His flock. 
Now, as humans, the Church and it's papacy are open to corruption and
perversion of it's divine status.  Difficult, to be sure, but possible.  It
would be wise to view everything in a skeptical nature, to be sure; however
one should regardless follow it's rule unless it's proven the work of
corrupt persons or is blatantly opposed to the commonly known want of our
Shepherd.  

As vassals of the Church, it is our duty to serve it in all things (unless
maledictions aforementioned should occur) and in so doing further our
service to God.  In consciousness and sleep we are meditating on how best to
serve God.  In pledging ourselves to the Church, we devote the entirety of
our mind, body, and soul to the One God.  That obligation should consume us.


Becoming a vassal of this illustrious establishment is open to all of those
inclined to the good path.  All you need do is open yourself to Him before
all others - but be resolved, for it is a commitment you cannot drop
lightly.  Churchmen are expected to be kind, gentle, and merciful to all -
even those of evil nature and those who wish you harm.  You are a
role-model, and the apex embodiment of Faith in Aabahran.  

For now, that shall suffice, and later volumes will elaborate.  Take this
essay and spread the light of the One and His Church to the darkness of our
world.  

From the pen of Daemian Sahthyr, Scribe of Herald, Theologian of Aabahran.  
~

Herald Leto Neesa~
The Way of Tranquility~
Again, seeking knowledge on the paths of life, I did inquire yet again of
the divinity, seeking The Way of Tranquility.  The authority on this subject
did humble this woman with a brief, and in truth, somewhat odd interview,
and Moleran did grant me three questions to which I could ask in order to
find the answers I did seek, to which I now relate in this tome.
 
I asked of Moleran first, in regards to the belief in Tranquility, what should 
their intentions be?  In reply, I was told that they should do everything in 
their power to protect themselves, and all others from harm.  In this task,
they can not harm another either, for to take the life of one to save yet
another, would not be a true representation of what Tranquility in truth
stands for.  Concerning self defense, I did ask, does this statement remain
true?  Moleran did confirm my thoughts, saying that it indeed was true
also in this matter.  Flee, if you must, even if the battle could easily fall
in your favor.  Take pity, and strike not with your hand or weapon, for such
a practice is not one of peace.  The third question I was so able to ask was
as follows.  True followers of Tranquility?  What goal should they strive 
and seek to reach in service to this path?  Again, I was answered, in 
both simple, yet true words.  Enlightenment, should always be the goal
to which one should work, and in finding such enlightenment, they would
achieve eternally.
~

Scholar Eldrigal Shrythara~
The Elven Pantheon~
The elven people have many gods they pay homage to, but a handful of 
gods hold a higher place than the rest in the history of the elven 
race.
 
Yaeger
The patriarch of the elven pantheon, Yaeger appears as an ancient elf 
clad in robes of shimmering white.  According to elven legend, Yaeger 
brought the elves to Aabahran millennia ago to escape a world where 
magic was dying.  He placed them in the forest of Danatha'nir and 
blessed them with the promise that so long as they remained united as 
a race, no enemy could prevail against them.  Sadly, this blessing 
ended when the drow turned their backs on their kindred.
 
Sylestra
Goddess of Nature in the elven pantheon, she is occasionally seen as 
an elven woman with hair of silver, her age dependent on the seasons; 
young in the spring to ancient in the winter.  More often, though, she 
is seen as a great silver unicorn, and these creatures are considered 
sacred to her.  She is worshipped mainly by the Sylvan elves, but a 
few of the High elves of Shasarazade pay homage to her in the Unicorn 
Grove outside of the city gates.
 
Yuul
The elven god of War, he appears as a young elven warrior clad in 
shining armor made of mithril.  He wields the sword 'Elstra'ad', said 
to have the power to cleave through any natural material as easy as 
passing through air.
 
Aya
The male half of the gods of learning, Aya embodies the power of magic 
for the elves.  Often depicted as a wizened old mage, he is said to 
have taught the elves the secrets of magic in the dawn of time, and it 
was from the elves that this knowledge spread to the other races.
 
Mala
Aya's wife, Mala rules over the knowledge of the physical world.  She 
is worshipped primarily by explorers, and is portrayed as a young wo-
man dressed in leathers and a traveling cloak.  She roams the world, 
seeking to unlock all its mysteries.
 
Lloth
The spider goddess Lloth embodies evil in the elven culture, and is 
worshipped by the drow.  She is usually give credit for corrupting a 
portion of the elven race to create the dark elves, though some specu-
late that it was some other evil god posing as Lloth.
 
Since the fall of the Elven Kingdom in Danatha'nir, many elves have 
begun to worship the same gods as the rest of Aabahran.  Others equate 
some of these gods with the elven gods, such as Mircea with Aya, and 
Mhalador with Yuul.
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
Conglomerate Theory.~
I am about to commit Heresy.  It is the practice of religious
organizations today to claim their dogma is the only true road to salvation
(or whatever else they promise).  I write this in contestation of that
belief.  This theory's basis rests upon the Church and One God, but brings
it further than they care to have their lessons interpreted.  I propose a
theory that places all of the gods and their subsequent religious ideals
under one banner.  The One God's banner.  

Now, before you discontinue reading, allow me to argue in favor of this
claim.  Followers of the One God believe that they find the One in
everything they behold; from the smallest blade of grass to the most
brilliant of man's architectural achievements .  Why then cannot he be
within the "pagan" gods as well?  I use the term pagan simply because it is
how they are known amongst the followers of the Church, but I do not put
stock in the negative connotation its garnered.  In fact - and here is the
hub of the theory - these gods we try so hard to condemn are our own God. 
From Mircea to Virigoth, each are an aspect of the One God.  

Allow me to put it this way; Man was created in the One's image, so it is
thought.  What is man?  We are a mass of different emotions and beliefs, a
split creature of light, darkness, and the gray in between.  This is fact,
and cannot be seen as false.  So, if we are the image of God upon Aabahran,
is not the One the same?  Can He not be of many various personality traits
and emotional states?  

I shall break it down further.  Let us take the one known as Luqin, god of
Compassion.  What I am proposing is that Luqin is the split portion of the
One embodying His compassion.  So it is with the other religious factions. 
All are connected in that they are the One in his various forms.  

One may ask why He chose to do such a thing.  Why would the One splice
Himself in to disunity?  Well, first, it is not disunity He split Himself in
to, just different parts of the same.  In response I will offer another
question; Should there be but one religious choice for all the peoples of
Aabahran, do you think we'd accept it without regret or question?  We were
made in diversity, and so the One knew we would require diverse paths in
faith.  His "fracturing" was in order to accommodate His flock.  

The evidence is in every being walking this planet.  Do we not all possess
some of each other's ideals?  Even the Crusaders exact revenge for petty,
personal malfactions.  Even the brood of Arzaeth stay their hand for
companions, even if temporarily.  And so I offer the idea that we are one
cohesive whole, though we do not believe it to be thus.  We follow the same
being, just a different mood.  
~

Odes and Expressions~ 5
Historian Zeyrsi~
The Academy Anthem~
*===========Song of the Academy============*
 
          Ye that pipe and ye that play,
        Ye that through your hearts today,
           Know the knowledge of this age!
       Come in thought and join our throng,
          Delight in teaching here among
       A presence which is not to be put by.
 
        Behold the teacher among his friends,
       With light upon him from students eyes.
         See at his feet some plan or lesson,
          Expierience from his mortal life.
        To dialogues of buisness, joy or strife,
          And with new satisfaction and pride
       Which we are toiling all our lives to find.
     Come intellectuals, and be master o'er students.
 
    *==========================================*
~

Academician Airen Denetheros~
Dream~
A murk of color is the Dream -
A gallery of things unseen -
Kaleidoscope of countless hues
Of Crimsons Lavenders Greens and Blues -
It shapes Itself, as does the Clay
But like the Wax, soon melts away-
The crossing o'er a Threshold great
Into an inspired, peaceful state -
It acts as Chimney for the Soul
Detaching worries from the Whole -
Yet also works as Fisherman
Netting Brilliance to reel in -
Anthem of the poor Wayfarers
Enemy of nightly Terrors
Story of a different kind
Mischief-maker of the Mind -
As Beautiful as It can seem 
Enigmatic is the Dream -
~

Academician Airen Denetheros~
A Wandering Fool~
It was just over a year ago, when I met a wandering fool.
His form shrouded with tattered rags,
His head crowned with grimy hair.
The eyes of passersby frowned upon the Fool in scorn.
For the Fool leapt about in awkward steps, 
His bare feet dancing to and fro.
A cacophonous melody poured from the Fool's lips,
And when he was not singing a verse,
He would bellow out a most shocking laugh.
I approached the Fool, asking
"Sir, why do you writhe and cackle so?"
"Good lady," replied he, "I dance about in this way
And thus unite with Passion.
I sing my song this way
And thus unite with Hope.
I laugh aloud this way
And thus unite with Mirth!"
So on he went, dancing his way,
Singing his way,
Laughing his way.
It was just over a year ago, when I met a wandering man;
His form shrouded with wisdom,
His head crowned with light.
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
Mantra of Opposites~
I am here, and I am gone, so that I am always at my destination;
 
I am left, and I am right, so that I might never be lost;
 
I am high, and I am low, so that I might see from all angles;
 
I am wide, and I am thin, to make the most of the spaces I occupy;
 
I am hard, and I am soft, so I might overcome with force and deference;
 
I am calm, and I am wild, for the spirit turns with both;
 
I am quiet, and that is all that I am, for that is all I need to be.
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
The Crusade.~
(Discovered in a discarded bible, worn and stained with blood)
 
Through tearing gusts of wind-swept blades,
O'er tempest ravaged seas of black,
Heaven's tears turned freezing slate,
Lightning falls with boom and crack.
Ghastly visions hell then casts,
To stem the tide of blazing faith,
Mong endless depths we stand steadfast,
Forcing back beast and wraith.
 
We proctors of your counted days,
Avatars of Divine Grace,
Wielding blades of tempered faith,
To lay the wretched in their place.
Down amongst the lowest fiends,
Holding to what you know is right,
Never gainst the darkness lean,
And fall while screaming "Fight!  Fight!  Fight!"
~

Tales and Stories~ 9
Herald Leto Neesa~
The Gathering.~
This tale was bestowed upon myself by the Divine Lord Mircea.
With great honor, and deep pleasure, I now bring his story to the
masses, and pray it does invoke thought and grant enlightenment.
 
I joined a gathering once in town and watched those around me stand
speechless, afraid to speak to me.   Am I so horrible that a gathering
of ten or more released no conversation?  Averting eyes everywhere 
entwined with silent tongues.  Perhaps it was my blinding image that
frightened even my own flock of followers.  So, I took the form of a
panhandler from the street, to appear below everyone in the room
according to society.  I began asking for gold, yet none came.  I asked
for food, but there was no food.  Still averting eyes and silent tounges
directed towards me.   In a final attempt to join the gathering I took the
form of the tiniest bunny and hopped about every ones feet.  Chewing 
on green leaves and trying to be noticed by all, I waited.  Yet nothing
came in the way I wanted.  Finally someone noticed me! Sadly, while I
was in the form of a bunny, their dagger found its way into my heart
as they spoke. Who is this bunny?  Be gone! I claim the in the name of
Lord Mircea!  As my lifeless form of a bunny lay on the ground a
sacrifice was made to my name and no one noticed.
~

Scribe Glihan Rae~
A Day in the Shire~
The Shire.  As I enter the peaceful village, I see a gnome working 
hard in the fields.  His tiny body shudders under the weight of the
shovel as he digs into the soft, but heavy earth.  Upon close 
examination, I realize that a gnome is NO GNOME, but rather a
halfling, just like myself.  He smiles and we engage in a friendly 
conversation . . .  Meanwhile, a tiny mound of dirt takes a life of
its own and proceeds moving blindly in all directions.  I chuckle, as 
I realize that the mound is nothing other than a tiny hamster, gravely
disturbed by the NO GNOME's digging.
 
Many years it's been since I stepped into the Shire.  Yet its 
peacefulness and calm remained with me since my birth.  The fields are 
ripe for tomato picking and spark with their green and red on the 
background of yellow hay.  The trees are short, yet the branches are 
wild and spread into all directions.  The houses, partially dug into 
the earth that fortifies and protects them, possess unique feel of 
perfect harmony with nature.  A kid can be seen flying a kite from the 
top of one house.  The kite possesses a tiny inscription proudly 
displaying the sigil of the SHIRE.
 
At times, the village (that now has grown to a size of a good town) 
rallies its tiny inhabitants to defend against the plight of fire 
giants that seek to dig up the earth and bash the children to death.  
Many halflings hide, but a few remain in battle easily defeating the 
brutes with quickness and precise placement of a dagger.
~

Scribe Livana Arianwen~
The Bird of Paradise~
Before the ancestors of the Kaddar first tasted blood...
In a luscious jungle timeless beneath the shelter of its canopy...
There existed a creature of flight blessed by Yaegar. His voice 
could be heard whispering among the beating of its wings; His 
breath could be felt amidst its fleeting shadow. It is said that the 
word of the elven god soars along with this mystic bird, traveling 
from heaven to our mortal realm, and that its sanctified blood 
will grant immortality. 
 
At least this was what Bashka believed, and the power of belief 
is enough to change fate. The old crone devoted her entire 
existence and flesh to the mysteries of sorcery. Even her body 
was shriveled and singed by the charge of immense magics she 
would channel through her corporeal tissue. With each slight 
movement, her leathery skin would almost crack and ash would 
scatter into the wind. She was betrothed to the Reaper, soon to 
witness her fateful union with death, and yet one arcane secret 
eluded her: the attainment of immortality. 
 
Years she lurked in the jungle, stalking her prey only to witness a 
streak of red plumage, a moment of bliss, and ever mounting 
frustration for her efforts. Only when the Reaper approached to 
claim his new bride did she see impending triumph in a lone 
scarlet feather floating downward: a single, intense mote of color 
in her ever-darkening sight. With this rare treasure, the old crone 
fashioned a charm to hide herself from the senses of the bird of 
legend. Unwittingly, the bird of paradise found itself in the talons 
of Bashka as she exhausted her last amount of life in the effort. 
As she avariciously drank the blood and essence from the slain 
creature, her fiery greed consumed her until she dissipated into 
an insubstantial mist. A beam of sunlight then pierced the 
impenetrable foliage of the jungle canopy to carry the kiss of 
Yaegar to the lifeless corpse of the bird of paradise. With this 
celestial touch, the divine messenger spread its wings to fly into 
heaven for the last time. 
 
Where drops of its blood fell onto the ground, a beautiful scarlet 
flower blooms now.  Each evening it withers with the fading 
light only to open its petals to a single sunray every consequent 
dawn, as if gasping the first breath of revival each morning. The 
bird of paradise flower is a symbol of restored hope and the cycle 
of life. However, the vicious crone still guards the area as a mist 
creeping across the forest floor, and her face can be seen in a 
large, granite stone travelers have named the Wrinkled Hag.
~

Herald Livana Arianwen~
The Curse of the Djinni~
In the height of an era of enlightenment and magic in Aabahran, 
there was no greater mage than Elizor. In most tales and scrolls 
of history, many might call him a good man though he would be 
indifferent to the label. Respected more than monarchs and 
feared more than warlords, he devoted his life to the arcane and 
through it he prolonged his otherwise brief human life and 
refined his features to rival the beauty of even the elves. His 
home was a grand structure floating amidst the clouds, and even 
the noble unicorns revered him as they frolicked through the 
ethereal columns of his vast mansion. There were only two that 
had the potential to penetrate the isolation of his estate in the 
clouds and the stillness of his heart. 
 
Both were accomplished mages of their own right: Dylan, the 
Dark Enchantress and Cunning Illusionist & Isabel, the Creator, 
the Conjuress. Their romantic rivalry soon escalated. There were 
sinister rumors concerning the intrigues of Dylan; it was even 
said that she enthralled the emperor of Miruvhor to gain a royal 
title to impress her hopeful suitor. However, all failed before a 
single deed of Isabel. Isabel, the Conjuress created the key to 
Elizor's heart within herself: a daughter for the prominent 
warlock. Indeed, the life flickering in the womb of the Conjuress 
was beyond the mystical abilities of Elizor and thus gained his 
devotion. 
 
The rivalry, in all appearances, seemed to have concluded with 
Isabel the victor. However, on the day of the fateful birth, Dylan 
arrived at the couple's abode in the guise of a midwife. The birth 
was a difficult one as many are, and Isabel grew as pale as the 
unicorn steeds she were to inherit with the loss of blood, but 
death was not what the Enchantress had in mind for her foe. The 
Conjuress was more than lucid upon the first breath of her child, 
but it was said that with the first touch of Dylan, all her scorn 
flowed into the babe and it transformed into the first ravenous 
harpy. With the blood that stained her hands, she bound the 
spirits of the two lovers and cast their mind into delusion, for if 
she could not have the love of this man, no one shall. 
 
Even now, their imprisoned souls can be found staring into the 
distance from the towers of Elizor's once grand home, their faces 
still a mask of feigned ecstasy. Each djinni are close enough to 
be tormented by the presence of the other, but never to be 
reunited. However, their lives have passed into myth as few 
venture into that melancholy region, saturated with loss and 
regret, for fear of the harpies. Like Dylan, these fabulous winged 
monsters were once women but were consumed and plagued by 
desire and jealousy.
 
-=As performed by Livana Arianwen for the demon Anarchant=-
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
Sacrifice.~
This cell is hardly clean; rats run amok across the greasy, fluid-stained
floor like they were enjoying a day at the festival, and the smell is enough
to cause a man to relieve his stomach at least twice a day.  I do not
complain, though.  I've resigned myself to this, awaiting my final moments
in this captive's box, with a nice view of my demise, and the future I
helped to preserve.  My daughter was just down the hill there, in the
playhouse that can be seen through the thick iron bars that decorate my
windows.  Or was she my daughter?  Is she yours when she has no memory of
you as her father?  

It occurred a few short years past, when they invaded the small village we'd
come to call our home.  They came with a mind for expansion, and although
the villagers didn't care who owned the region, they did care for their
lives.  I heard the shouts a few seconds before the first of them burst in
to my hovel, and beat me with the pommel of his sword.  I tried my best to
fend him off, but a second, and a third soon joined in his macabre
entertainment.  My daughter, a mere twelve, lay huddled behind the bed where
I'd told her to hide until she saw me in my sorry state, and screamed for
them to stop.  Their attention turned to her.  They left me thoroughly
brutalized, an itch for illicit deeds in their loins as they descended upon
my daughter.  This I couldn't allow, and here is where I made my choice.  I
took from one their bloodied blade, and ran him through.  The others, now
unclothed and unprepared, followed their friend in death.  My daughter was
unconscious from shock and fear, but was otherwise safe from harm.  I took
her, and fled.  I knew we wouldn't be safe from our pursuers, and I knew the
only way to save us both was to give something up; ut was it to be my
daughter, or myself?  The choice was obvious, and leaving my sobbing child
at the door of some aristocrats mansion, I returned to give myself up for
sacrifice to their God of War.  

I scratch my flea-ridden form, emaciated from lake of nourishment, and think
upon that sour time.  I had heard, from various contacts within and without
this prison, that my good child was accepted by the family I'd abandoned her
to, and raised her well.  Raised her as their own, and that was the problem.
I wasn't her father, I was a face that appeared in her nightmares, a hazy
image that haunted her hidden thoughts like some ill-meaning specter. 
Often, while trapped in this place, I wonder whether this entire thing was
worth it, whether I'd made the right decision.  I was sitting, mere hours
from my death, with nothing but this standard-issue loincloth - not even
pleasant memories.  

Before the invasion I'd lived with what I believed to be a good woman.  It
just so happens that the only thing of worth she gave me was our daughter. 
For years I care not to count she was with numerous other men, in numerous
paces and at numerous times.  Friends who are friends no longer threw the
fact in my face after having her.  It was only a matter of time before she
left with one of them.  She didn't want our child, so I took her.  

So it was finally that time - but it's alright, I'm ready.  After all of
this thinking, that chopping block is even starting to look appealing.  I
still had my doubts, and I have them still as they tie me up.  I have them
as they march me outside, and up the small incline that leads to the
Butcher's Platform.  They set me to my knees, and the Executioner placed his
mask upon his face to hide his shame, polishing the blade that would be my
undoing.  At least it was a nice weapon.  I could hear sounds from the
playhouse below, and there, shining like the angel she was, was my daughter
in mid-performance.  She was even more beautiful now as the child of a
noble.  The flash of the blade briefly caught my attention as it rose above
my slaughterer's head, but my head was turned away to listen to the applause
that greeting my kin.  She was smiling, and as the blade fell, I smiled too.


Was it worth it?  Oh yes, it was worth it.  
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Little Adeline (Ch: 1)~
I'd like to dedicate this story to:
Mireiya Valimont, my dear little sister
 
As Adeline opened the lids of her eyes, she felt a softness against her
face.  A small cherry blossom had befallen the frontal of her small cherub
cheek.  She placed it carefully in her hand as she sat up, noting the
softness, the sheer delicate constitution of this pink beauty of fragility. 
Little Adeline became acutely aware of the morning shower.  However, this
shower was not of water, nor cats and dogs, but pink petal'd cherries
landing with a careful tip-toe fashion all around her.  An overwhelming
feeling uplifted her, it was an instantaneous moment of stunning happiness
in witnessing this light shower of sweet pinkettes. 
 
She looked below, and at herself.
 
"Absolutely lovely garments," she thought.
 
She had on a small, simple pink dress.  Supporting her body was the soft
bed of fallen blossoms and petals.  The whole world was made of pink and she
was apart of it!
 
But where was she? 
 
She did not know.
 
Who was she?
 
She thought back a moment.
 
"My name is Adeline," she suddenly spoke.  A gasp escaped her small body.
Was that her voice?  It was a soft voice, a child's voice.  She touched her
trembling lips, then slowly made her way to her feet.  Taking note of her
surroundings further, she saw that she was in an old abondoned church house.
The woodwork of the whole building was long old and greyed to disuse.  The
small bed of flowers from whence she awoke was on barren earth, seemingly
the centre of the cathedral from where she now stood.
 
Nearby, she spotted a small pool of water and made her way across the cold
hardwood floors.  The grey aged wood was cold and felt almost like a cushion
as it bent beneath her steps.  Kneeling, she gazed at the reflection back at
her.  A small child was there, looking back at here serenely with softened,
turqautic pools of seeing.  Long soft locks of hair curled down like rose
vines to the back-end of her tiny waist.  Fitting nicely on her head, was a
small pink bow, befitting of her other simplistic apparel.  How old was this
child?  Seven?  Eight?  Hardly anymore than that.  
 
She giggled.
 
"Little... Adeline," her own voice softly whispered in her mind.
 
At once a painful barrage of visions began to flood her mind.  She could
make no real sense of them, they passed far too fast for her mind's eye. 
And there was pain, more evident than not, it was searing and burning its
way through, trying to find the path. Her head was on fire and she could
not stop it.
 
"What is this," her small voice cried out loudly in her head.
 
Footsteps. Clanking armor. Someone was approaching.
 
She glanced at the now torn doorway. Not one man, but two, with dirt
cling'd armor galour.
 
"It's her," the first man shouted.  He was obviously in lead of the two. 
The other was bumbling about, trying to load the crossbow in his jittered
hands. 
 
"A crossbow?", the words materializing in her head.
 
Were they thinking of killing her?  She began to back away slowly, fearfully
placing step by step on the cold floor.  Her back suddenly touched the back
of something hard and cold.  The pew.  She slowly sank down, trembling as
she watched the advancing men.  Try as she might, her lips would not move to
form.  Only small, short gasps escaped her petite lips.
 
The two men slowly drew near, the leader with his sword raised and stepping
with a high caution, and the other advancing clumsily behind, crossbow aimed
at her general direction.  He was still shaking.  They were proceding as if
she were some dangerous animal that would, at any given moment, pounce and
make mangl'd toys of their bodies.  The man with the crossbow stopped.  He
was well in firing range.
 
"No! Stop! Don't!", she desperately pleaded soundlessly in thought.
 
The crossbowman's eyes suddenly widened in shock, or some identical emotion.
It was quite clear that suddenly a horror was spreading throughout his body,
rendering him helpless.  He slowly began to lower the wooden weapon.  The
leader shouted an order back at him, without leaving his focus on her.
 
"It's a trick, stay focused, damn you," the man barked.
 
"R-right! Yes-s sir!"
 
The crossbowman raised his weapon again, snapping back into what little
focus he had.  The leader began slowly advancing again, heavy armour'd
footsteps hitting the ground with a heavy metallic clank, sword at the
ready. 
 
*Clank* *Clank* *Clank*
 
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
Curse of the Bigglewance.~
No doubt you've all been curious as to the title of Athraeil Stiple, Duke
of Val Miran.  "Slave to the Bigglewance" is his known handle, but why? 
This was precisely the question I asked, and the following is the story of
it's conception.  

Twas Val Miran, 445 PC when a nondescript gnome was spied amidst a crowd of
onlookers.  Said gnome had garnered attention through his discourse
regarding the system of time referred to as Bigglewances.  Apparently, these
units of temporal measurement are used in the gnomish society to time such
things as harvests.  However, try as they might, no one could seem to
convert the Bigglewance in to our normal scheme of minutes and hours.  

To make things more complicated, this short lecturer could not, apparently,
see very well.  He would constantly and without fail misconstrue the race
and gender of everyone present.  This is where our protagonist Lord Athraeil
comes in.  Unfortunately for the Duke, the gnome had mistook his human frame
for that of a gnomish woman.  Regardless of how this could possibly have
been accomplished, the blind visitor wasted no time in wooing and courting
Val Miran's star-crossed royal.  

During this drama, someone had the notion of inquiring of the gods for their
expertise.  In response, Bryntryst of the Balance revealed himselves to
those gathered.  Unfortunately, they offered no assistance in clearing up
the Riddle of the Bigglewance.  However, they did concoct a plan that would
free Athraeil of his clingy gnomish lover.  The Split Immortal commanded
that a peanut butter cookie, a bottle of milk, and some herbs be brought
immediately to their locale for their plan.  And so they waited , and
waited.  

And waited.  Eventually the ingredients were brought before the dual god....
And he promptly ate of the cookie, and drank of the milk.  Those who had
been waiting marveled at this exceptionally normal occurrence.  All this
because they were hungry?!  But no, the ritual was not complete, for the
glass of milk was dropped to shatter in to a million glassy pieces, and then
gathered to be mixed within the herbs.  Athraeil then took of this brew a
little bit, and ingested it.  He promptly became a gnomish female.  

Needless to say, this was a source of much embarrassment for the duke, and
much humor for those watching.  However, the ultimate goal was realized, and
the gnome that had been incessantly pestering poor Athraeil saw him then as
an elf, and left in disgust.  It was then told to Athraeil that, for
Fifty-six Bigglewances, he would remain in his piteous state, returning to
his original form once said time was complete.  He was not happy, and
neither was his wife.  

And so it was, with this scenario, that Athraeil Stiple of Val Miran became
known as the Slave to the Bigglewance.  To this day he remains pestered by
curious adventurers and nosey scribes, and it is unknown whether or not he
shall ever live down his ...  Prestigious title of Slave to the Bigglewance,
and the story behind it.  
~

Scholar Daemian Sathyr~
In Search Of Value.~
What is value?  This is the question I was permitted to ask Kylthean, the
Judge of Value during a pleasant and insightful audience.  Many people of
many alignments and backgrounds define value as different things; the gnomes
of Tarandue find value in wisdom of tinkered objects while the Ogre ilk find
value in power of body.  I respectfully pointed this out to the visiting
deity, and the following was his reply:

Kylthean: 'Ah, it is true that there are relative values, but there is a
universal value that underlies all.  It is this that I know, and that you
must discover.  For simple objects, there are powerful spells to know it,
for you, it will be a life-long journey, which only rare mortals complete. 
'

What is this underlying virtue?  I haven't the slightest idea - but then, it
was said it would be a life-long journey.  I then inquired of the being
whether or not he'd like something known to the masses of Aabahran.  Again I
quote:

Kylthean: 'If I were to have one, it would be to give all the knowledge that
greed is not undesirable.  It is not dark, nor light.  It is simply wishing
the best for yourself.  You may aid others in your greed, or thwart them. 
It matters not.  '

Daemian: 'Sire....  Erm, I'm terribly sorry to contradict, but might I say
something?  '

Kylthean: '<chuckle> You may.  '

Daemian: 'Please realize that this is simply my own creed in these words... 
But greed is defined as an overzealous desire to augment ones self.  You
speak of simply the desire, which would be better denoted as survival - that
is, if I am interpreting correctly.  '

Kylthean: 'Correct.  Greed IS survival.  '

Daemian: 'So you do not believe in going too far for one's betterment?  '

Kylthean: 'What is too far?  '

Daemian: 'Well, then again, too far is relative, yes.  '

Kylthean: 'Although I judge all in the end, followers of mine or not, I
allow each to find their limits.  Remember, the increase of oneself is
Greed.  But there is no wrong in increasing others at the same time.  Also,
there is no wrong in decreasing others.  You understand clearly?  '

Daemian: 'Yes, but what of decreasing oneself?  '

Kylthean: 'Decreasing on the short term so that you may increase later is
wise.  For example, an investment.  '

And so it ended, after a few words of thanks between he and I.  The judge
left in a plume of swirling mist, leaving me to ponder this ever present
value.  How is it to be discovered, I'd need more than this brief discourse.
But then, the discover of such a truth lifted him to godhood, it can't be
expected that all shall "pierce the veil" of mortality.  However, one can
hope.  

~

Scholar Aegilia Bael~
The Battle for Macendia~
The Battle for Macendia -- Prologue

The city was in shambles.  Over the course of two days one life form brought
chaos and destruction to this city, bringing the city to its knees.  It
litterally, with the power of one finger, crushed all opposing forces and
force all buildings to come tumbling to the ground in a heap of rubble.  The
few healers left after the siege were sifting through the rubble, praying
for some survivors and praying also that not all hope was lost for those
survivors.  Traversing over some rubble, sometimes wading knee-deep in
blood, a man stumbled and tripped over what used to be a temple for the
gods.  One of the healers shuffling through the rocks and mud happened to
glance up and notice the man fall to the ground.  Running as fast as the
boulders and remains would allow, the healer went to the man's side and
lifted his head from the ground.  The man, near death and barely breathing
was uttering something when the healer got to him.  With his final raspy and
horse breath he mutters, "Beware...  More...  To...  Come," and there,
amongst the smoke and dust, the man fell limp in the healer's arms.  There,
for nevermore, to breath again within the city of Macendia.  
~

The Savant Collection~ 1
Herald Leto Neesa~
Introduction~
The Tower of Savants is a place of deep knowledge and arcane powers.
Within its vast hallways, secrets of time, space, magic and illusion are
buried, their unknown ways and practices being known only to the
most elite of the mage community.  As the personal scribe to the Tower,
I have so been lucky enough to peep inside on occasion, and the
wonders held within are astounding, and in many ways, hard to
completely comprehend.  One could spend an eternity researching the
multitudes of tattered scrolls and ancient tomes found just on the
first floor alone, and it would take a massive army of devoted scholars
to catalog all of which are found within the Tower.
 
The intentions of the Savant organization are many, but in truth, I
have come to understand that their main goal is quite simple. To see
that the forces of magic and mystic flourish within Thera, and by doing
so, eliminating ignorance from the populace at large.  In the eyes of
your general Savant, all should be educated in the ways of the arcane,
and if such were done, famine, suffering, pain and death could all
be avoided.
 
There are two main branches of the Tower, two distinct paths its members
can chose to so devote themselves.  The first, known in certain circles
as Mysterum, are schooled and trained in the arts of seeing, of peering
deep within, and far without.  By such practices, the Savants are better
able to judge what actions to take, and how to so go about them. Those
of Mysterum are like watchers, carefully gathering knowledge to so
enlighten and instruct the masses.  The second branch, referred to as
Temporum, spend their energies taking precaution, delving into
wicked magics of great destruction and force.  It is said that their minds
are like knives, and their whispers sweet, killing words.  With an
unlimited amount of knowledge, they are able to call forth extreme
energies which are used to battle all who so oppose them and their ways. 
~

Records of Val Miran~ 1
Herald Livana Arianwen~
Statement to Inductees~
Rank Requirements:
----------
A full and experienced life is fundamental to effectively govern a 
city. Also, each promotion bears a new set of duties and 
responsibilities. Therefore, we should use guild rank as an 
important aspect that reflects the knowledge and wisdom of the 
applicant or noble in consideration. Induction to the Val Miran 
House and the title of Lord/ Lady will require at least a guild rank 
of 30. The title of Advisor will require a guild rank of 35. The title 
of Baron/ Baroness will require a guild rank of 40. The title of 
Duke/ Duchess will require a guild rank of 50. Finally, an adequate 
King or Queen should be at the pinnacle of their profession. In 
addition to knowledge and wisdom, guild rank directly affects how 
many mercenaries a member can lead. Therefore, a higher position 
in your guild will be more effective in ensuring the safety of our 
city in times of war, as well as commanding respect.
 
Applications:
----------
Eloquence in writing and speech is one of the greatest weapons of 
diplomacy and a crucial skill that often defines a superior noble. 
Therefore, each word in an application should carry meaning and 
reflect the amount of thought put into it. All letters of promotion 
and induction should avoid vague references to service and provide 
as much detail as possible. Scrolls from those who seek to be 
inducted are to be most carefully read, especially from the king or 
queen. The citizens of Val Miran have proven to be kind-hearted 
enough to look past faults, causing anyone who asks to be granted 
entrance into the House of Val Miran. Therefore, the right to veto 
should be exercised when necessary. Induction applications should 
include the history of the applicant, any meaningful events, 
qualifications, and ambitions. All of these may not be addressed 
and the scroll may still be of fine quality, but it is encouraged and 
looked for. Also, it reflects better on the applicant if he/ she first 
approaches a member of the House before sending the scroll. 
Scrolls for promotion up to and including the title of Baron/ 
Baroness may be more casual and brief but a certain amount of 
thought and fluency of words must still be exhibited. To gain the 
much respected title of Duke/ Duchess, a Baron/ Baroness will be 
approached by one or more of his/ her superiors and the potential 
elder must send a vote detailing the accomplishments of his/ her 
career. Just because there are positions available for elder and/ or 
leader does not mean that it must be filled if there are no qualified 
candidates. Whether or not the applicant has been absent for 
extended periods of time without explanation may be another 
factor in determining promotions. All vetoes should be followed by 
an explanation as well as any suggestions for improvement.
(Note: Progress and improvement as well as how easily one adapts 
to advice/ criticism will have a fairly heavy weight in many 
decisions.)
 
-=Written by Queen Athelea - Published by request of Queen Seiluna=-
~

Little Adeline and the Feline Chimes~ 12
Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Two (1 of 2)~
Ah, Mya, such a name, quite befitting of a youth.  A young woman's name,
early in her twenties perhaps; not the name an elderly woman may carry. 
However, such was the name for Madame Dumonte.  She never used her first
name anymore than she used a bottle to receive her milk.  Madame Dumonte had
long outgrown the name, and was now nearing the ending stage of life.  At
exactly what time the name lost its use isn't quite given, it was as if it
were a gradual metamorphosis, and suddenly emerged was no longer Mya, but
indeed Madame Dumonte herself.  It may have been on the day of her late
husband's death, or perhaps his funeral.  No one knows for sure.
 
Much was the same on this bright early morning; boiled water for tea, eggs
and ham, and open window shutters to welcome the warm morning sun.  Long has
the war drawn out, the only man she held deathly close to her was now taken. 
There were times when she kept up with the war, eager for any letters or
news on foot of the progress.  All of that faded away somewhere, or she just
tired of it.  Or both.  It was every morning Madame Dumonte would have her
tea and breakfast, and contemplate this, not in eagerness, but in a
reflective manner.  There were some that would call her solemn, a solemn
widow of the war-degraded slums.
 
Today's morning was one morning of one week, and it was on this morning of
this week on a weekly basis that Madame Dumonte would go on a small walk to
collect a few flowers for herself.  If only one thing for certain was
beautiful, it would be flowers.  The very flower is the emblem of beauty, a
lifter of spirits and tickler of the senses.  One can not help but be
rendered helpless by the sheer magnificence of the flower.  Such sweet
perfumes blossoming and budding in the Spring, droves and droves of them in
fields, though never is it too much to spoil the portrait.  This, of course,
was all Madame Dumonte's reasoning, as she headed out her small wooden
doortstep.  
 
This time, Madame Dumonte would be heading towards the long abandoned church
of the southern neighborhood area.  Although the very structure had been
aged and run down, the garden still stood there still, glistening in all its
incensed worth.  The smell of sanctity never left those old church grounds,
as it is said that once a place has been made Holy, it shall stay so until
the time no longer flows forward.  It just comes to show that man made
churches are not needed in order to worship, she would think.  Such stamina
and vibrance those flowers hold, almost a phenomenon.  If only people
themselves had such a strength, then they'd be enticing every moment of
their lives!  
 
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Two (2 of 2)~
As Madame Dumonte neared the grey'd form of the church, she witnessed three
alarming sounds from within the cathedral building.  Firstly, was the
helpless cries of men, and secondly, was some sort of small explosion with
the splatter of liquids shortly after.  She hurried as fast as frail legs
could hurry to the scene, empty basket in arm, stopping at the torn doors of
the entrance to find a rather horror stricken ending.  There, on the bare
wood of the church floors, were three bodies.  Two of them were men, with
absolutely nothing but the air itself for heads.  Near one of the bodies was
a crossbow that had been shot, however, if it was loaded correctly the arrow
would no longer be in its place.  The blood was slowly flowing out from the
men's necks as if Time itself were slow'd and the river was coping to keep
pace.  Darkened petals of cherry blossoms were slowly merging with the thick
viscus fluid, creating an off tinge of black that soaked the ground.  The
smell of blood combined with the powerful perfume of the blossoms contorted
her stomach like none other, it was a feeling of extreme nausea as much as
the sight.  
 
In an inverse state, the third body's head was much intact, as was the
rest of it.  As her eyes fell onto this one being, the smell of Death seem'd
to have been completely washed away by the warm current of perfum'd
blossoms.  This small being was a sweet sight, as sweet as flowers, perhaps
(dare she say?)  Even sweeter.  This little delicacy was dressed almost
completely in a bright pink shade, much like the same cherry blossoms found
in the very church.  It was a small female child of mild age, unconscious
with a soundless slumber, and almost appearing dead, save for the slight
fall and rise of the tiny chest.  This child's face was a perfectionist's
ideal, such a cherubic quality in all its beautific daintiness.  Here,
laying on the cathedral grounds, was the very image of a miniature angel or
some celestial entity.  Surely, this was some sign from Above.
 
Forgetting the flowers and the dead men altogether, Madame Dumonte gathered
the small angel in her arms.  She was amazingly light, and easy enough to
cradle in her arms.  Absently, in her sleep, the child nuzzl'd her small
face, turning her head against Madame Dumonte's arm.  A warm feeling ebb'd
and surged through the old lady's; body she had held many children, but none
of her own, and none quite like this.  Out of the torn building of the church
the woman headed, child cradl'd softly in arms, and a smug look of one who
has been smote by the intense sanction of a field of flowers a thousand
times over.
 
Back into her small cottage of a home she headed, deep within the slums.  So
much wealth of the land was being drawn for the war, that it seemed the very
buildings and neighborhoods were dying just as much as the men.  She lay'd
the small child into a cot, near the open fireplace where the heavy smell of
breakfast and other meals resided.  And Madame Dumonte, peering with an
intense serenity, had never known the feeling a mother can hold for a
daughter.  Until now...
 
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
The Prologue~
In dedication to my dear sister, Mireiya Valimont.  

Falling...  Falling...  Falling...  

Drifting on an invisible current was this, simply complex object with frail
makeup of a pink beauty.  It felt the Sun on its surface, warm rays all
about, pouring into the morning from the open sky.  It felt the pleasantry
of just being, floating, drifting, falling.  And there were others, just the
same, the same same all in all, pink, soft, and falling.  

Falling...  Falling...  Falling...  

The wind was here, curling into a twist, a gentle tug circling, it with the
others, dancing petals in the air.  Down below the ground was nearing, small
buildings growing visible as the school of petals came fluttering ever so
slowly.  All around were the sounds of a far and distant war, faint, but
present all the more, as if the very land had died.  A hole.  A whole hole
of large was where it was going, grey and old with wooden scaffolds long and
abandoned.  Very visible were the rays of Sun spilling into this hole, as if
to mark the path of entrance to the delicates, and it is there they entered.


Dancing...  Dancing...  Dancing...  

It saw for there it was, the destination, a palette of its own relatives,
its family.  There a gentle bed of cherry blossoms blossomed in the radiance
of sunlight, radiance themselves in their own way, filling the air with a
sweet fragrance that meant all the world to noses.  In this bed, another
delicate, pink as well, but not quite the same.  It was laiden as if it
itself had fallen smoothly in a guided path, and was now safe in their arms.
Here it fell on this creature, on top of something smooth, almost as smooth
as its own material, but not quite, though it felt the warmth of the being,
warm and silken.  A stilling pleasantness.  

The Sun, coupled with the connection of this own, was success, a lifting
success of empathetic tenderness, and it had, the very temptation rising,
the urge to tickle this being, in mischief, in play, as one may do to the
loved one.  With help of the breezing air, it did just that, ever so
slightly swaying against in a subtle caress of two skins who meet,
delighting in the touch.  Wild wonder became as two long lash'd lids slowly
made their drowsing wake, the apparent reaction to this action of this
petal.  Bright light in the midst of white, twin lanterns peering skyward
were revealed.  

And the whole thing, garmented in pink and all, was rising...  
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter One (1/2) (Re-Mastered)~
As Adeline opened the lids of her eyes, she felt a softness against her
face.  A small cherry blossom had befallen the frontal of her small cherub
cheek.  She placed it carefully in her hand as she sat up, noting the
softness, the sheer delicate constitution of this pink beauty of fragility. 
Little Adeline became acutely aware of the morning shower.  However, this
shower was not of water, nor cats and dogs, but pink petal'd cherries
landing with a careful tip-toe fashion all around her.  An overwhelming
feeling uplifted her, it was an instantaneous moment of stunning happiness
in witnessing this light shower of sweet pinkettes.  

She looked below, and at herself.  

"Absolutely lovely garments," she thought.  

She had on a small, simple pink dress.  Around her neck a scarf of white
gauze presented itself, and just below it, a gold chain bearing a metallic
fork with a kitten's head attached to it.  Black silver shined from the
kitten's head, its eyes closed, mouth upturned into a happy smile. 
Supporting her body was the soft bed of fallen blossoms and petals, which
seemed to be pouring down from a hole in the ceiling above..  The whole
world was made of pink and she was apart of it!  

But where was she?  

She did not know.  

Who was she?  

She thought back a moment.  

"My name is Adeline," she suddenly spoke.  A gasp escaped her small body. 
Was that her voice?  It was a soft voice, a child's voice.  She touched her
trembling lips, then slowly made her way to her feet.  Taking note of her
surroundings further, she saw that she was in an old abondoned church house.
The woodwork of the whole building was long old and greyed to disuse, and
many of the pews laid askew in a non-linear fashion as if moved by an
invisible force.  There was the sound of trickling water nearby, and the
whole area seemed a feeling of light dampness about the air, and the morning
Sun was bearing down its golden rays, lightly toasting her skin.  The small
bed of flowers from whence she awoke was on dark barren earth, seemingly the
centrepiece of the cathedral from where she now stood.  She couldn't help
but feel that there was something magickal about her whereabouts somehow,
that something intangible was in someway charging her with a sort of
excitement.  Exciting?  Yes, for the shock of her voice fuel'd it, a growing
emotion of unknowing and fearful excitement.  Why hadn't she known her own
voice?  

Nearby, she spotted a small pool of water and made her way across the cold
hardwood floors.  The grey aged floorboards were cold and felt almost like a
cushion as it bent beneath her steps, lightly as she did.  With each step,
she could almost feel the water being squeezed beneath her, her imagination
imaging a bubbly clear fluid frothing from the ground.  Kneeling next to the
shallow pool of clear blue, she gazed at the reflection back at her.  A
small child was there, looking back at her serenely with softened, turqautic
pools of seeing.  Long soft locks of hair curled down like rose-vines to the
back-end of her tiny waist.  Fitting nicely on her head, was a small pink
bow, befitting of her other simplistic apparel.  How old was this child? 
Seven?  Eight?  Hardly anymore than that.  

She giggled.  

"Little...  Adeline," her own voice softly whispered in her mind.  

At once a painful barrage of visions began to flood her mind.  She could
make no real sense of them, they passed far too fast for her mind's eye. 
And there was pain, more evident than not, it was searing and burning its
way through, trying to find the path.  Her head was on fire and she could
not stop it.  This burning did not touch her outer-skin, it was all inside,
as if a great surge of liquid fire were rumbling and tumbling upwards from
her head, driving and trying, but not quite, out of her head, as if to pour
forth from her ears, eyes, nose, and mouth in great gushes of fiery tumolt. 


"What is this," her small voice cried out loudly in her head.  

Footsteps.  Clanking armor.  Someone was approaching.  
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter One (2/2) (Re-Mastered)~
She glanc'd at the now torn doorway.  The ancient doors were thrown open,
wither'd hinges grasping and bent for dear life.  The very doorway look'd on
the verge of collapse and exhaustion, though mircaulously, it stands.  Not
one man, but two, with dirt cling'd armour galour were there, one of older
age and a broad stature with a battleworn face, and unshaven whiskers
spell'd gruffness on his features.  The other, a much younger man, almost a
boy, had not even grown his facial hairs, his face was smooth and had
features preceding manhood.  He had the look of a farmer, or planter, though
his body seem'd somewhat muscular, his face and whole demeanor gave way to
his inexperience.  

"It's her!"  The first man shout'd, pointing a drawn broadsword.  He was
obviously in lead of the two.  The other was bumbling about, trying to load
the crossbow in his jitter'd hands.  

"A crossbow?", the words materializing in her head.   

Were they thinking of killing her?  She began to back away slowly, fearfully
placing step by step on the cold floor.  Her back suddenly touch'd the back
of something hard and cold.  The pew.  She slowly sank down, trembling as
she watch'd the advancing men.  A strong sense of danger ting'd her insides
and made its way through her body, coursing through her veins in a sort of
paralysis.  This feeling sent her head swimming as it crept on, her throat
closing in a tight curl'd ball.  Try as she might, her lips would not move
to form.  Only small, short gasps escap'd her petite lips.  

The two men slowly drew near, the leader with his sword rais'd and stepping
with a high caution, and the other advancing clumsily behind, crossbow aim'd
at her general direction; he was still shaking.  They were proceding as if
she were some dangerous animal that would, at any given moment, pounce and
make mangl'd toys of their bodies and paw at their dangling, limp bodies
with a large mawing ferocity.  

The man with the crossbow stopp'd.  He was well in firing range.  

"No!  Stop!  Don't!", she desperately plead'd soundlessly in thought.  

The crossbowman's eyes suddenly widen'd in shock, or some identical emotion.
It was quite clear that suddenly a horror was spreading throughout his body,
rendering him helpless.  He slowly began to lower the wooden weapon.  The
leader shout'd an order back at him, without leaving his focus on her.  

"It's a trick, stay focused, damn you!"  The man bark'd.  

"R-right!  Yes-s sir!"  

The crossbowman rais'd his weapon again, snapping back into what little
focus he had.  The leader began slowly advancing again, heavy armour'd
footsteps hitting the ground with a heavy metallic clank, sword at the
ready.  

*Clank* *Clank* *Clank*

The footsteps came closer.  From a hole in the ceiling, beams of sunlight
shown through, reflecting off the nak'd blade in blinding streaks of white
rays that could pierce the flesh of eyes.  He held his sword like an Angel
of Death, readying his tool to collect on her soul, to deliver her into the
nether realms where only the dead walk'd.  The blade would come down, in a
slice perhaps, or a piercing action, cutting her life into tattering
fragments that would spew her internals like a sacred rain.  

"This is the end..."  She softly murmur'd.  
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Three~
"Mother Dear, I have to go, nothing can stop this,"

"I know...  I know...  It's just...  You're so young!  You are my son, my
precious son."  

"Every day that we linger here, is every day another life is lost, many of
them.  They're getting desperate, Mother Dear, and my name was called.  I
have a duty..."  

"You are my only son, who will help your Papa with the work on the farm? 
They didn't even call your Papa to fight, they know he is too old for that
kind of thing.  You know I am getting old as well, and it is hard enough
already...  Oh I wish you didn't have to go."  

"Mother Dear, it's only The Children.  The Children have began the War, and
it is them who are winning.  Look here, they told me, all we have to do is
stop them from re-uniting with The Mother, and the War shall be over.  See?"


"Yes, so simple, and yet..."  

"..."  

"..."  

"...  I'm going now.  Goodbye, Mother Dear."  

Mother and Son embrace each other, perhaps for the last time.  He quickly
mounts his trusty steed...  A worn jackass.  He rides off, a parchment
bearing his name safely in his tunic; bearing his name and his call for
duty.  The Sun is slowly sinking, down, down into its slumber, twilight fast
approaching with a mural of early stars painted in the flaming sky.  Mother
looks on after her son, as he slowly disappears into the horizon connecting
Land and Sky.  She gazes on into the orange, the bright red, the slight
pink, violet, and darkened blue blend of the setting sun.  Quickly, she
makes the sign of the cross on her forehead, and utters a prayer.  

"Dear God, Please protect my son, protect him from all harm of the War, he
is a good boy, he is an innocent one.  He never hurt anyone, he only wishes
to help our farm and please us.  Please bring him back safely, let all the
arrows and blades miss his body, he does not want to kill anyone, he only
wants to live.  He is so young, the Harvest has only come sixteen times for
him.  Please send him home safely, he is my only boy, my one son, we would
be shatter'd without him.  I give my own life for him, just please, please
bring him back safely.  Oh my little Riccardo..."  

She makes the sign of the cross again and whispers a solemn "Amen",
returning quietly to the cottage.  
~

Scribe Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Four~
-=-=-=-Nineday the 24th of the Month of Rage, Day of the Sun-=-=-=-

It is so late in the night now, or should I say early morning?  It all feels
the same.  Pieces of parchment is expensive here, I just figur'd out, so
I'll attempt to squeeze everything nicely here and make the most of it.  Ink
is a treasure; so scarce now, these simple things.  It seems the War is
pulling every musterable effort it can to stay together.  

It was late yester-morning when I left our old farm to come and serve here. 
Mother Dear seem'd such a nervous wreck when I left.  It saddens me, but
there is no choice.  Of course, Papa decided to work in the fields extra
early that morning; I don't think he could bear to see me away.  That's
fine, I know how much he cares, rough as he is.  I'm finding things very
difficult; the food, accomodations, and especially the training.  I always
seem to fumble around with the weapons (especially the crossbows, what odd
little things!)  .  The older men say I have "the shakes" and it shall pass
with time.  Frankly, I don't want enough time to pass for anything of me to
erode.  Ah!  How I miss Mother Dear, and Papa too.  It's so late, but I can
not sleep due to my body's aching.  Such a torment.  I feel so strange, as a
foreign man does when he is displaced to new lands; I really don't think all
this war is for me.  Oh how I long to be home!  The only comfort I found
here was a bright novice witch-girl and my cot.  The girl calls her self
Lydia, and has an amazing amount of energy.  I suppose they need it, what,
with all that chanting and dancing and so forth.  Lydia says she is the
apprentice of the witch-woman Elsa, whom I've the vaguest hint on the name. 
At times I think I fancy Lydia, though she can come off as a bit of an
annoyance.  

Alas, I am called by the Commander!  So late in the night (or early morn)? 
Off to the strategem tent with me...  

Later:- They say with the growing skill of writing in these journals, I can
recall almost exact conversations.  Let's put that to the test, shall we?  I
was assign'd a special sort of mission by the commander, I think.  

I immediately noticed the intense smell of burning incense as I stepp'd
through the tent door-way.  The commander and captain greet'd me with swift
salutes, and I did the same.  Sitting on the ground was another person, a
women seemingly in her mid-twenties, dress'd strangeley in a silken dress of
deep violet, with serpent braces of gold adorned along her slender, dark
arms, which were otherwise nak'd.  Smoke from the incense arose and danc'd
near her deep emerald eyes, but they did not tear, as though they were
accostum'd to such.  Her hair was long with braids reaching far past her
shoulders and down her waist in black glimmers.  She nodd'd her head to me
in greeting, and I quickly snapp'd back my look elsewhere, for I must have
been staring.  The commander quickly gave the introductions with all haste. 
He seem'd a hasty person, slender with aubourn hair and a few scars here and
there.  

"Private Third Class Aurius, Riccardo, that is the witch-woman Elsa, and
that is Captain Vaquero, Jefferson."  

And as to seperate himself from the rest, he made a half attempt at a
haughty gesture and gave his own introduction.  

"I am Commander Cruz, general of this squadron, although I am sure you know
that already.  As you know, we're fighting the War in combatance of the
Children, those beings of extreme power who appear like children in their
teenage youth-years.  We've learn'd of the appearance of a Child, thanks to
Elsa.  It is the Sixth Child and the only Child to have been destroy'd in
the last Great War, thus ending it.  Your mission is simple: Seek out and
destroy it.  Since it has just appear'd in making, it should not have any
capabilities of harming any one, and should be fairly easy.  The location of
the Child has been narrow'd to the city slums of West Van Buren.  Private,
you will be backing up Captain Vaquero, and Elsa shall guide you to the
exact location.  Gather what you will and prepare to take leave at 0400
hours."  

"Yes sir," the Captain and I both said, and salut'd.  We all left the tent,
and I am here now making final preparations to depart to West Van Buren,
less than two leagues away.  No sleep for me it seems, not as if I was on
the way to the Land of Dreams anyhow.  
~

Scholar Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Five (1 of 2)~
This is the day of the Sun.  It is the day in which the rising will rise,
and the falling planets will rest eternally.  Some say in order for
something to be gain'd, something must be given in return.  This is the day
of the Sun.  This is the month of Rage.  

In the far side of the sky, that blazing idol shows as it transcends to its
daily journey.  The night is fast receding, being push'd away by golden rays
to toast the land as it does with a browning crumpet.  Dawn is making its
break into day, effulgence in its prime.  The sky is clear, the breeze is
felt only in the slightest, and a trio is seen in a decaying city.  These
are the slums, where the homeless roam free and the children sleep in sewage
pipes because they can no longer afford to live in decency any more.  

"Elsa, how close are we?"  Said the gruff one, walking his horse and
following behind the woman.  

"We're almost there," replied the woman as she made her way over wooden
ruins and small piles of garbage.  

The third, a young man in his teens, says nothing.  He is quiet and
attentive, following and saying nothing.  No question or comment arises from
him, he only follows.  Without warning, a chilling breath breathes down his
neck, and the sound of a low, deep exhale is whispered in his ears, as if
some apparition or some spectre had fog'd his senses.  The gut of him
tightens into a knot, a cold crawls over his skin.  He quickly turns around.


Nothing.  

Though that the appearance that nothing sight'd only heightens his thoughts
in a brooding silence.  That was the same breath he had felt years ago,
before the death of his grandmother.  She was an anemic and had to be
properly condition'd her whole life, for the slightest disturbance or
excitement could be too much to handle.  However, old age always comes for
every one, and her time was coming.  On her last day as she lie in her
deathbed, he felt that breath, that chilling breath.  It was a thing that
made his hairs stand on his neck, as if something was floating about the air
and waiting to descend at the oppurtune moment.  

Returning from his recollection in a bit of fear, the boy glances at the
woman.  She appears even greyer than before, grave and solemn.  It could be
that she felt it to, that gripping presence, the ominous feeling that brings
sudden peace and still.  She looks back at him, and says nothing.  

Finally, the woman stops near an old church-house, beyond its age in
usefulness.  An overcast of gloom daunts the wooden planks from which it was
built.  The doorway is ajar, double-doors torn at the hinges and utterly
useless.  There would be fear in touching them, for the slightest stir may
tear them down.  

"Elsa," the old man gruff'd out his voice in an orderly fashion, "you stay
here.  Not fit for a woman to see what shall go on.  Riccardo, you're coming
with me.  Ready your crossbow."  

"Very well," said the woman, complying without any hint of opposition or
regret.  

"Yes'sir," the boy said, following as he is told, as he is always told, and
has always done.  Hardly the strength to do it, he makes ready his crossbow,
pulling back on the string, bolt in hand.  After about a half a minute of
struggle, the contraption is load'd and apparently ready for use.  

The older man lets his fingers slide along the scabbard of his sword slowly,
ceremoniously, then slowly draws it out, a large thing with a broad blade,
though he wields it with one hand.  

"Let's go."  
~

Scholar Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Five (2 of 2)~
As they stepp'd through the doorway, there seem'd to be an immediate
change in the setting.  It was that sacred feeling, wrought all around and
bound to every fibre of the floor, wood, and air.  It was the feeling of
that zeal when a devote follower stepp'd into the House, but this was a more
amplified feeling.  It seem'd that the amplitude and density of the
sacredity had been exponentially increas'd.  The surroundings overcame
Riccardo like a great tidal surge, and the sweeping undertoe would soon pull
him under.  

There was a gaping hole in the ceiling, a hole in which was blown avast from
the rotting wood, and now there was a golden river of sunlight passing forth
and downward.  The sunlight was a yellow road descending, its traffic a
benevolent blow of low drifting petals of pure pink and prudence.  Where the
road took its travelers was a great bed of cherry blossoms, and the Sun
shone forth brilliantly upon it with pride, that this...  This was the
centre of the church.  This was the centrepiece, the centre of attention.  

On that bed of petals and blossoms was the faintest imprint of a small
thing, humanoid, and a child, but it was no longer laying there, though from
anyone's view, it could easily be seen that they had taken to their feet and
walk'd a bit, for look!  There were footprints.  Not far off, there was, lo'
and behold, the Child, kneeling on the ground almost, bearing some pain.  It
was a small child, so innocent in youth, and so harmless, and yet it was
this that they had come for, this to be destroy'd.  

She saw them.  

"It's her!"  Captain Vaquero shout'd, pointing his drawn broadsword at her. 


The sudden shout gave Riccardo such a start that he almost dropp'd the
crossbow.  He quickly recover'd only to find that THE BOLT HAD FALLEN OUT. 
Now his nervousness began to settle in worse than ever.  This had been his
first away mission, and he was under the scrutiny of the Captain.  There was
no time for slip-ups and he was already shaking like a leaf.  He fumbl'd a
bit more with another bolt, then load'd it as quick as he could.  

When he look'd up, he saw that the Child had began to back away slowly, as
if in fear.  In fact, it look'd the perfect image of fear.  It was as if she
saw some great beasts after her, low and growling, and she could only move
so much in a frozen state.  All of a sudden she could back no further, for
she had come against one of the pews.  The last of her nerve was breaking,
for gravity was taking its place as she began to sink down, her own strength
offering little resistance.  

Captain Vaquero began to advance on her, and Riccardo follow'd.  Aiming the
crossbow with a shaky hand, he stop'd once he was well within range to fire.
The Captain kept advancing forward.  

And then the oddest thing happened.  A voice spoke to him in his head, in a
yell almost; a plead.  It was the young voice of a little girl, and it
begg'd, "No!  Stop!  Don't!"  

Then came a long string of serious doubts.  Was this little child really a
harm?  Or was it just some normal child who would be kill'd?  Riccardo
couldn't bear to find out.  What would happen if the child was just a normal
child and they kill'd her?  What then?  He felt his body loosen.  

"It's a trick, stay focused, damn you!"  The Captain bark'd.  

He suddenly snapp'd back into focus.  No matter, he was a dog of the
military now, and orders were orders.  

"R-right!  Yes-s sir!"  Riccardo stammer'd.  

Captain Vaquero was slowly advancing, his armour clanking on the ground. 
Was he doing that on purpose?  Without any hesitance, the Captain rais'd his
sword.  

Just as the Captain was to deliver the blow, a sound of a low note was
heard.  It sound'd as if someone had struck a long pipe and it was
reverberating with an ominous hum.  It was felt tugging and resonating
against their souls somehow, a sound that made people fall trance.  This
sound was almost hypnotizing.  It struck again.  And again.  Even intervals
and long, steady notes, as in a metronome.  

And then...  
~

Scholar Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Six~
A detatch'd feeling.  Floating sensations.  Renew'd lustre of hope and
reality.  There was a tingling of knowing all over Riccardo.  There was
something different about himself.  It felt as if he were a penguin that was
suddenly airborne.  He was above and a spectator of the world.  The world
unto, he open'd eyes.  

And how remarkable it was!  The explosion of colour, the sheer virtuosity of
sound, the flowery scents that fill'd every pore of him!  It was almost more
than he could stand!  And he look'd down, down onto those pitiful people.  A
dis-used church with three bodies fallen.  A flood of blood dampening pink
into dark scarlet.  Two head-less, one a boy, another a man.  The other and
last body was a small child, a small girl.  

"Poor souls," he thought.  

Poor little boy who laid there.  That boy was only so innocent.  All his
life he had only liv'd to want the best for his parents.  He only want'd to
make things better.  It was only peace for that boy's family, that small,
back-broken farm.  It wasn't his destiny to kill...  But it was his destiny
to die.  He knew the story, he knew it all.  The story did not matter.  That
boy was now lost, and he was found.  

He felt a sense at his back, and turning himself around, he felt The Beacon
beckoning.  He could spot it in the distance like a candle in the darkness. 
There was an attraction, a pull.  He wanted to go to that beacon, and be in
its presence.  That's all he want'd.  The Beacon.  

Looking about, he saw that others too, were being drawn to it.  He saw forms
that look'd human, elf, and all sorts of self- conscious kin.  All kin.  All
together.  Some were not even in resemblance to anything he has ever seen. 
They were like large sheets that cover'd the sky, moving and flowing as the
gelatin fish does in the sea.  A slight tinge of recognition tugg'd at him
as he look'd onto a soul.  It was one of the bodies below, a gruff and
middle-ag'd man.  The man saw him as well, but quickly went on his way, in
the same direction of them all.  

He was past the ceiling of the church now, right through the solid roof and
into the open sun.  Now he felt the light as a gentle bath of temperate
ecstasy.  There was no such thing as cold.  There was no such thing as hot. 
There was only This.  This feeling that could bring modest joy and even more
modest pleasures.  He was on fire with water.  

"Come to me."  

Three simple words.  He want'd to come, with all his strength, he want'd to.
With all his being, he want'd to.  Being all he was, he made what not just
every other soul and spirit was making, but his own decision, that he want'd
to come to The Beacon.  

"I come," he thought.  

To The Beacon...  
~

Herald Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Seven (1 of 3)~
There was nothing left to do.  The pair would come out with bloodied
hands and soil'd weapons and the mission would be over.  All Elsa had to do
was wait.  She was always used as a sort of guide and seer, some tool for
war.  She had long ago sold her soul to the military in order to take
apprenticeship under a well-known witch and prophet.  That's what they were
now, all of them; dogs of the military.  Even now the cycle makes its turn
as a new apprentice has arriv'd to study under her, the bright and energetic
Lydia.  The girl was young and full of potential.  Just as it had been with
herself.  

Dragging her out of thought was a rank and stagnant smell.  What was that
repelling smell, she thought.  Such a horrible smelling place, the slums. 
All around were piles of waste and mountains of all-around junk.  She
spott'd the smell.  It was a heap of dung with a lovely audience of
gargantuan flies hovering near the remnants.  She shuddered.  All the wisdom
of her teachings couldn't shake her of the natural dislike of reeking vile. 
The horses didn't seem to mind.  They were all grazing peacefully on the
patches of grass that only grew so well on the lawn of the old church.  

The church itself was massive, she discover'd as she look'd on at it. 
Larger than some of the more modern ones she's visit'd, perhaps.  It most
certainly rival'd any others she's seen.  Even in its age and disuse it had
retain'd the natural splendor, a great ruin of decaying wood and glass.  The
windows were made up of long, stain'd glass with several ikon-like
depictions in their geometric style of art.  Here and there the windows
foresaw The Trio; Mother, Father, and Son.  Towering high was the steeple,
no longer white, but grey.  It point'd up toward the skies, to the Heavens,
but if it even scratch'd the surface, no one could tell.  It could only
strive.  

The sense of Death was stronger now than ever before.  It was like a heavy
bog-wraith smothering the area with its presence.  The boy had felt it, aye.
She knew he did.  They all did, it made their trip a sombre solemn.  It was
odd that such a spectre could bring about the feelings of nostalgia, for she
had (unintentionally) read the other two's minds.  Both of them recall'd
that same dreadful emotion, that black atmosphere.  

Without any warning, a series of turbulent images began to force themselves
in her head.  She was perceiving in the eyes of the boy now, and a sharpen'd
sense of fear was with him, but sharper still was his sense of duty. 
Something of a wonder was going on, a wonderful and deathly miracle.  Over
and over the sound of some deep, even and long note was resonating within
the church.  Over and over, repeating and repeating, that low and even
metronome of sound.  The Child's power was being releas'd.  Too soon.  

Through the boy's eyes she saw the source of the sound.  Vibrating on its
own accord was the fork of a chime necklace strewn across the Child's neck. 
It was sounding as if by an invisible force, and the Child was awakening. 
Slowly, she saw the Child's feet rise into the air, her eyes ablaze in an
iridescent blue with a deep and painful anger.  She didn't have to see it. 
She could feel her power from where she was standing outside.  It was in the
change of wind and air that gave eerie chills down the spinal column.  

"My Gods..."  She heard herself whisper.  
~

Herald Felicio Valimont~
Chapter Seven (2 of 3)~
The Captain tried to bring his sword down on the Child to no avail.  It
struck an invisible wall, so hard that the sword and his whole arm vibrat'd
from the impact.  His sword, a big monster of a blade, clatter'd uselessly
on the ground as he was suddenly lift'd by an unseen hand, and just like
that, his head was gone in a miniature eruption.  The body dropp'd like a
dead-weight, discarded like a piece of trash.  The Child's attention was on
the boy now.  

This was the moment of truth, and whatever sense of duty the boy had, was
now dissolv'd.  It was if the Child's gaze had stripp'd everything away from
the boy except bare instinct.  

Run.  

That was what every fibre of his being was saying.  

Run.  

But he couldn't.  He was frozen solid on the spot.  Then she felt it, the
fatal move of a step that let's you know immediately, that aye, he is in
fear.  It was the backstep, oh that fatal backstep.  Now the Child would
make her deadly move.  

It was his turn to float into the air again, such a plaything, a healthy
pleasure for being destroy'd.  He was suspended in the air with an iron-grip
on his crossbow.  Aye, the crossbow, she heard him thought.  There was a
sliver of his rational mind left, just a small inkling of it that was enough
to raise his arm and pull the trigger.  It did not fire the bolt.  The bolt
was stuck, jar'd within.  However, such a thing did not matter.  His fate
was seal'd long before then.  The shot was only to humour him, it could do
no real damage.  

And then he felt it.  It was an electrifying sensation that flash'd in his
body from his feet, up.  This was something interesting to be felt, it was
extremely agonizing, yet it somehow had a sense of pleasure imbedded within
it.  It was everywhere on him, that flash of agonizing pleasure; his skin,
his muscles, the very bone of him.  It was a peculiar thing to feel, that
such pain of extreme measure could spill into the thresholds of other
sensations.  As one feels so icy cold, that the difference between fire and
the same ice meant nothing, or that something was so heat'd, that it felt
the same as being frozen.  

It struck high, all the way into the inside of his head, yet it want'd to go
further.  It press'd all against his head in every kept on, he felt beads of
sweat trickling down his face.  The pressure was too much, he felt his head
would give way any moment now.  

Suddenly, she felt his whole body go numb, and the vision ended in pitch
black.  
~

Novel - Mian Lay~ 4
Scholar Irpel Brpel~
Prologue & Information~
The Deciphering of Mian Lay, and the Prologue
 
The tongue of old tales and legend has a great code to it, 
especially in writing.  The stories from the east and west 
over the oceans create rumor and even faith if correctly 
made known to the people of Aabahran.  In my many years of 
private study in the Bard Guildhall, and post-study in 
Heraldic Halls, I have gone on a quest to translate the 
ancient stories from the tome, listed by sages, monks, and 
carolers from the eastern and western unknown lands.
 
As I flip through the tome given to me by the mystery lady 
in the Emerald Forest Treehouse; the faceless lady wreathed 
in fog; I come across a single story title: Mian Lay.  I 
am inspired and curious to know how this story goes, but the 
words seem endless in the pages as I make my way through.  
The tale is divided in many chapters.
 
As I awake, I return to the study of the language at hand.  
It is not elvish, but rather Daladic.  Daladic are the 
half-elves, half Men of the Far East, and the kingdom of 
Gologoth (I know not weather this kingdom still exists, or 
even if the land it is or was upon is still above the ocean.  
After the first Cataclysm, the lands were greatly shaken, 
and many islands sank into the sea).  Theirs is likewise to 
elvish, and easy to translate; one thing stands in my way
at this time, the words are in code.  This was done so only 
certain people could read it.  As it was known, supposedly, 
some people were eternally vanquished from any form of 
entertainment, which seems odd.  The more common case is 
that the Monks sent word in code to one another to maintain 
secrecy in the acts and clans formed within the monasteries.  
Besides this code, the story is in a native dialect, and 
odd idioms have been written, which I dare not utter for 
fear of what they may do to the world around me.
 
The sun sinks in the sky and my candle-light dims, so I shall 
be brief.  I have deciphered the first page of the story, and 
will write them below in the following sunrise. 
 
These words vaguely lay the foundation of the story behind 
Mian Lay which is at hand:
 
Makrede, these are the words dedicated to Gologoths finest 
men: And now what is no longer supreme is under the sole of 
our feet, and the old rulers of the plague have been vanquished.  
Salanepte, Salanepte, praised be the warriors of our 
unstoppable Lord, Sylvantis.  In honor of the great victory, 
I present this tale of a young girls life to you all, in 
remembrance of our savior and queen.  Let it be known that 
the tale is long like that of life, and let this be a guild
such.  However, above all else, enjoy that which is written, 
and abide to whatever lesson you may learn in its quest.  
Makrede should be the first to see the words written, please 
be sure it is he whom opens the cover.  Thank thee.
 
The form of speech is most defiantly that of a half-elf bard, 
most likely the jester of Makrede.  I have deduced (after hours 
of pouring my study over the handwriting; The pen was made of 
wood, and the letter lines are jagged in places; the author of 
this small prologue was nervous about what he was doing, but 
rich) that the author was a jester for the tribal forest leader, 
or the king of the forest monk monastery, thus why the parchment 
has been copied with raw thatch and a wooden pen, on top of the 
coded nature.
 
Now all that is left is translating the many chapters of the 
story itself.  They will come to public viewing as soon as I 
can finish unveiling the words in the common tongue, and writing 
it down on the parchment I can conjure.
~

Scholar Irpel Brpel~
-Chapter One-~
Bodiget spoke the chant of the Feergone, turmoil.  Alnenon, 
Alnenon, let Bodiget rest and suffer bind him - these words 
were inscribed upon the tomb.  Mian stepped onto the path to 
her home, and looked to the roads edge and peered upon the 
stone with these markings.  Her breath became heavy, and she 
let out a long sigh of remembrance.  These words troubled her 
each time she came from the fields  The fields were south of 
Oblen, down from Mount Gesgry  here is where she harvested 
and made plants and food for Oblens citizens, and animals.  
Here grew berries, wheat, barley, apples, and many scattered
trees, and all was vibrant and beautiful with color.   And the 
sky was always pink in the Fields of Gesgry, for the twin 
lights from the eastern towers were blocked by the arches of 
Golothon, and the sun passed through eternal clouds which 
wreathed the sky, and made green and gray the fields with 
seasons of hot and cold and warm, and lukewarm.  Oblens pastor 
is not Bodiget, but Toniget, the father of Chilla and Mian.  
Toniget worked long days under the roof of Oblens church of 
Sylvantis, in prayer, and in psalm, and in healing.  And Toniget
begot favor and love, and he earned respect.  But the chant of 
Bodiget did not stop in the mind of Mian of Chilla, for it was 
a curse, and incurable.  Mian slowly began to step up the steep 
path to her home, where the air was high but not cold, and 
moist, but not thin.  Oblen was riddled with houses roved with 
thatch and straw, and little stone, but they were built well, 
and they were steadfast for the people of Oblen, for theirs was 
the blessing of Sylvantis.  The carry of things to Oblen from 
the fields was not bitter or hard, for gears were constructed,
and machines were comprised.  Ropes and pulleys and cranks 
stretched from the city to the fields for miles, and the cranks 
were moved and the gears were turned, and the fruit of harvest 
was brought up to Oblen, and the struggle was reduced.  
Knowledge of this was Made from the words of Knangack, Gnome 
of the Far Western Lands of Aabahran.  And so it was that Oblen 
was prosperous, and bountiful, and happy.
 
Mian wore what women wore, as Chilla wore:  Blue gowns, sandals, 
rings of the Tyran, earrings of the Turen, and crests of the 
Tyran, bells, belts, and necklaces.  As each person was, each 
person had their own face, and eyes, and lips, and shape.  Mian 
paced slowly up the mountain, her gown rippling, and much toil 
was needed.  Sweat beaded down her brow to the pale skin which 
wrapped her delicate face.  She breathed heavily, but smiled as 
home was near, and her smile was pleasing to the eyes of Men, 
and Elven men, and Dwarves, for she was beautiful like the light
of dawn, honored and coveted.  Held under her right arm was a 
blanket of wool from the fields and was stained with bright colors 
and tied with silk bows, as were the braids of her golden hair.  
And as she stepped into the town without walls or warriors, she 
sighed gaily, and walked to the church.  Here in this church the 
psalms hummed at all times, and souls of all but Bodiget are 
soothed, and mortal ears hear it not  only the immortal are 
praised and raised a high by the song.  They sing: Glory, 
Afleabem, Glory unto You, and blue shines day of late and Yours,
Glory, Afleabem, Glory unto the sky of Yours, but mortal ears 
hear it not, but only a hum.  Mian approached the father of the 
church of Sylvantis, and she bowed her head before him, for he 
glowed with power unfathomable to her  Sylvantis had begot his 
mind as he sang and made prayer, and Mian fell to her face with 
reverence before the Light.  Toniget made notice of her and he 
turned to face her, lifting her to her feet with words of the 
First Sala, saying, Teff iffan, Gologotd.  And she rose before 
him, and the hue of her cheeks bloomed red.  Toniget spoke unto 
her, It is I, Toniget, your father, Mian.  Fear not of my song,
and Mian nodded to Him, for he was of the mind of Sylvantis, 
and Toniget was His voice, Come, sing with me, and we may go 
rest.  And so Mian did, setting the blanket from her arm upon 
an oaken desk, and they sang for many moons praises and glories 
unto Sylvantis a high, and when it came time for them to end 
their song, they rested in the church and slept long hours in 
the Light of Sylvantis, and they were safe.
 
These are the first accounts, and first chapter of Mian, as the 
words of the Far East have been made known from the Tome held of 
Irpel Brpel.
~

Scholar Irpel Brpel~
-Chapter Two-~
They awoke upon sounds and birds and color from the windows of 
the Church, for theyre exhaustion had gone from them and they 
were rested, and restored by the power, purity, and life of 
Toniget's uttering.  But as the sun rose from the horizon, the 
life died softly, and those of Oblen rose like the sun and began 
another month of the year of Fallings with feast and dance.  
Minstrels from the northern halls came to perform and make 
laughter fill the air of Mount Gesgsy, and joy filled the hearts 
of the people there, and they're hearts were soft.  As the sun 
began to sink, Chilla demanded with glee that the air was in
need of warmth, and fire was called upon to warm the bodies of 
the people, and so it was the air was made warm with fire.  Mian 
sat amongst the dying laugher as the light sank and the long day 
cast a spell of tiredness upon the people, as the feasts were 
many, and the activities exhausting.  And so it was, that Mian 
retreated to the home of Toniget as darkness came over the 
Mountain of Gesgry, and there they met, and sat with one another 
in the dim light of a candle.  These are the words spoken of 
Toniget and Mian on that night:
 
"Mian, sit with me and speak your words.  Long has it been sense 
we have spoken freely" spoke Toniget, his eyes he did focus upon 
Mian.  Mian smiled a warm smile at Toniget and obeyed his wishes,
for they were few, and worthy of her willingness. "Yes, Father.  
I have never seen you dance as you have during this sun.  I 
believe if I smile because of this anymore, my mouth will have 
to fall from my face."
 
Toniget chuckled heartily at these words, and his own face became 
flustered with embarrassment and joy. "I have never danced before.  
Chilla wished me to learn, so that I did for her.  She is rather 
wanting at times, but I wish to give her what she deserves for 
her hard work in the flat of Gesgry.  Mother Fiay could dance 
better than I ever could."
 
The words of Toniget pleased Mian, for it was rare they spoke of 
family and not of life of worship and duty.  Her hair was undone 
and comfort filled the house of Toniget, quiet and peaceful.  
She spoke in reply after short moments of thought, and Mian's 
brow was quirked in apparent confusion - "Will mother be home 
from her pilgrimage soon, father?  I much wish to see her again; 
I do miss her soft voice greatly".
 
Spoken this, Toniget leaned from his seat and placed his lips to 
Mians forehead lovingly.  His kiss was of blessing and honor, 
for he much admired Mian's youth and innocent nature.  Unlike 
Chilla, who did not desire such attention, Mian lusted for the 
smiles and love of others, by giving her compassion and care to 
those in need.  The silence of Toniget did not satisfy Mian's 
curiosity, though; she did not repeat her question, for her love 
and honor toward Toniget were greater than any other love, and
her only final wish was to aid him and Sylvantis.
 
"You must be tired, Mian; please, rest.  The month will be long, 
the rains are coming to help our fruits grow" spoke Toniget 
softly, as his voice was made hoarse from singing and chanting, 
and barely audible, "Sleep my daughter, dream in peace."
 
And so she did as she was told, and she smiled at Toniget 
peacefully, and made her way to the room in the loft and slept 
long as Toniget remain awake, and prayed to the Lord Sylvantis 
a' high many words and psalms.  These are the accounts of 
Toniget's prayer (Let it be known few words are currently 
translated from the tongue of old):
 
"Gila'mn noy, for ton algeta; All not hinder; Methen'dia forina,
for ton algeta; All not hinder; panodeck; protect us now; for ton 
algeta moltst; All not hinder lest be our; demienala, for ton 
algeta; All not hinder; Methen'dia forina, Gologoth, effrety, 
aflrety, bantostic or nony daulandeki an sefle moltsh Mian; Please 
guide Mian."
 
These are the first accounts, and second chapter of Mian, for 
the worlds of the Far East have been made known from the Tome 
held of Irpel Brpel.
~

Herald Irpel Brpel~
-Chapter Three-~
Thus the day became old, and Toniget rested in his house 
under the protection of Sylvantis, and he was safe.  When 
the moon rose, a foul chatter was heard by those not in 
slumber, and it was the chant of predators and vile bodies 
of evil; and these were the voices of fear, and scheming, 
for there was power growing in the mists of Oblen, and it 
was against the light of day and the light of the Twin Towers
to the East.  As the sun became present, the chatter left 
the ears of the sleepless, and the sleepless never spoke; 
however they spoke with their fear and their eyes changed 
hue to the feelings.  And the sleepless knew the chatters,
for only they could sit under the moon Dyphreties.
  
Mian awoke and bathed, and dressed her body for a new day, 
as did Toniget, for this was a day of work.  This was also 
known to Toniget, and not to Mian or anyone other than Toniget 
to be the day of the Wife's return; The Wife of Toniget was 
Fiay, or Mother Fiay, for she was The Priestess of Oblen, 
and song maiden of Sylvantis.  Mian was not told.  She left 
for the fields of Gesgry to collect and make harvest for the 
new Month, which was now the month of Openings. And Toniget 
walked to the Church, where Fiay had slept the night waiting
for his coming, and he was surprised at her sight.  His heart 
became soft, and his mood was of happiness; both were embraced 
with each others arms, and joy abounded in the church.  And 
the day wore on, and the people rejoiced for the returning 
of The Priestess.  And She gave to them many blessings and 
smiles; she gave to them gifts from the far away lands, and 
created a cool sleeping place for the farmers of the fields 
of Gesgry, for the sun was in the sky scorching, and the 
fruits of the month were many.  And when it was that the 
harvests reached Oblen by means of the machines, that Mian
started to climb the mountain, along with eleven other farmers, 
all of which were female.  The seventh farmer was Chilla.  
When the farmers returned, they became pleased by the waiting 
of The Priestess, and many smiles were shown, and the town 
was blessed.  Upon the coming of night, Fiay, Toniget, and 
Mian returned to the home of Toniget, and all sat within its 
walls, for they were a safe-keeping.  Chilla did not follow, 
for her heart became hard; this is because of The Priestesses 
love for Mian and not for her, for Chilla was bitter, and her
abiding in Sylvantis was none.  Also, her jealousy for Mian 
grew with each new moon, and the power of Dyphreties rained 
upon her.  These are the words of them, for they were family 
in blood:
  
"I am overjoyed by your returning, Fiay, as is Mian" spoke 
Toniget, for he was indeed pleased.  His love for her was not 
more so than her love for him or his love for Mian.  Mian also 
loved Toniget more than she did Fiay, for Fiay was away at many 
times.  "I thank you, Dear Toniget.  My road becomes short,
my pilgrimage is almost complete."
  
And Mian was displeased, for she believed that her stay in 
Oblen was forever more.  Her words were not rash toward Fiay, but 
rather mal-contented.  "I expected that you had finished.  Will 
you have to depart once more?" came soon the words of Mian.  The 
Priestess merely nodded to Mian in return, and let out a sigh, for 
she was also displeased, and Toniget's reply was simple: "She was 
also unaware until a new Calling of Sylvantis last noon".
 
Mian asked not of the work of The Priestess, nor did Toniget.  
And the sun sank, and it was a night of Dyphrities; but the 
blessings of Toniget and Fiay made the city safe, and the 
sleepless once again translated the chatters of the dark.  The 
prayers were many, for Toniget sensed the growing power, and 
the darkness shrouded this unknown plotting from the eyes of 
Sylvantis.
 
These are the first accounts, and third chapter of Mian, for 
the worlds of the Far East have been made known from the Tome 
held of Irpel Brpel.
~

The Official Constitution of Miruvhor~ 6
Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
The Preamble~
We, the Citizens of Miruvhor, under the reign of Emperor Galvatar Xebonn,
in order to establish a shining beacon of civilization, establish a more 
wealthy and prosperous nation, insure domestic obedience, provide for
our common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure our 
holdings do ordain and establish this Constitution of the Empire
of Miruvhor. This Constitution consists of five articles.
 
Article One - The Chain of Command
 
Article Two - The Judicial System
 
Article Three - The Military System
 
Article Four - The Economic System
 
Article Five - Treason
~

Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
Article One~
One: The Royal House of Miruvhor, being the duely elected rulers 
of Miruvhor, shall hereby be granted complete control over all of 
Miruvhor, in order to best serve the will of her citizens. This includes 
full legislative, political, economic, legal, military, and diplomatic 
powers. 
 
Two: The Royal House of Miruvhor shall be composed at all
times of the following:The Leader of Miruvhor, hereby defined
as the highest ranking mortal member of the Royal House. 
The General of Miruvhor, who is defined as the highest ranking 
member of the Royal Forces of Miruvhor. The Master of Coin, who
is defined as any exceptional member appointed by the leader of
Miruvhor. In times of trouble, one member of the Royalty can hold 
more than one of these titles.
 
Three: The Leader of Miruvhor is the supreme authority in all matters
concerning the well being of Miruvhor. He, more than any embodies
the spirit and will of the people, and is responsible for our collective
success or failure. Therefore, it is hereby written that no Leader of
Miruvhor shall hold post without having established a clear line of
succession, to avoid having those unworthy or unfit for leadership
sieze the reigns of power during a time of transition or flux in power.
 
Five : Any threat or suggestion of a coup upon the lawfully elected 
elders of our Empire is to be deemed an act of treason, and is subject
to treatment under the provisions provided in artice four (IV).
 
Six : Any applicant of suitable wealth, aptitude, temperment, and
judged worthy by the current administration, may be inducted into
the Royal House as a consort. The hopeful noble must seek out and
obtain the support of at least one member of the Royalty beforehand,
submit an acceptable scroll as deemed by the current administration,
and be elected by secret ballot. Failure to meet one or all of these 
criteria shall result in immediate action taken as deemed fit by the 
current Leader of Miruvhor.
 
Seven : The word of the Emperor of Miruvhor supercedes all written
law.
~

Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
Article Two~
One - The Legal system of Miruvhor is hereby defined as the 
collective persons and laws set in place to enforce the will
of our Empire and ensure that a proper, orderly system is 
maintained at all times, so that a clear code of conduct 
can be established.
 
Two - The Current Leader of Miruvhor, by the powers vested in
him by his duely elected position, is hereby granted the position
of Supreme Judge in the Legal System of the Empire of Miruvhor.
The General of Miruvhor and Master of Coin are hereby granted the
position of Officers of the Law, and are authorized to act in their
capacity should the Supreme Judge be unavailable.
 
Three - The High Crime of Treason, as specified under article five,
is considered a crime of the highest order and is given special
treatment in said article.
 
Four - Any member of the Royalty who knowingly and willingly
commits a crime deemed to be of the highest order shall have
his rank and fortune taken, and be exiled from our Empire,
never to return. 
 
Five - During times of religious or ceremonial signifigance, and
if deemed acceptable by the highest ranking member of the legal
system of Miruvhor, weapons are permitted openly in the streets
such as ceremonial daggers, swords, etc PROVIDED they are used
solely in accordance with whatever ritual is being performed at the time,
this extends to ritual sacrifice and other such activities including
wholesale bloodshed and mass killings.
 
Six - Slaves are permitted and encouraged so long as one can
maintain a reasonable standard of living. No one may possess
more slaves than they can themselves support. Failure to keep one's
slaves in good health, will result in a fine and possible seizure of 
property.
 
Seven - The Legal System shall obey and respect the orders of the
Official Chain of Command of our Empire.
 
~

Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
Article Four~
Article Four - The Economic System
 
One - The Economic System of Miruvhor shall at all times remain under 
the control of the Leader of Miruvhor.  The Master of Coin shall be 
appointed, by the Leader, to oversee both present and future economic 
trends and to ensure the economic well-being of our Empire.
 
Two - The Master of Coin will be responsible for keeping a reliable, 
accurate, and up to date synopsis of all matters relating to the 
economic well being of our empire.
 
Three - The official currency of Miruvhor is henceforth to be known as 
the "Galva".  All unmarked gold coins flowing into and out of the city 
shall be branded by The Royal Mint, under supervision of the Master of 
Coin, with the official seal of our Empire.  All new coins minted 
shall bear this Mark.  This currency will have exactly the same value 
as a normal, unmarked gold coin, however unmarked coins will no longer 
be accepted as currency until they have been branded.
 
Four - Slave masters, prostitutes, traders of illicit cargo or 
dangerous items such as alcohol, tobacco, or other more "exotic" 
substances are required to obtain a permit from the Master of Coin 
before they may engage in their activities.  Failure to do so will 
result in serious fines, and repeated offenses will result in 
execution.
 
Five - Operators of any establishment which has a profit of more than 
twenty-thousand Galva a month shall be required to tithe an amount 
proportional to income to the Ministry of Finance.
 
Six: All charitable donations in or to Miruvhor will be subject to a 
ten-percent tax payable to the Leader of Miruvhor.
 
Seven - The Master of Coin shall obey and heed the commands of the 
Leader of Miruvhor.
~

Academician Eldrigal Shrythara~
Article Five~
Article Five - Treason
 
One - The Crime of Treason, hereby defined as, but not limited to, 
openly defying the rightful leadership of our Empire, knowingly aiding 
accused or convicted enemies of the state,  attempting a coup or 
otherwise undermining the Chain of Command, spreading anti-Miruvhor 
propaganda, demonstrating openly in the streets against the current 
rulers, or any other act deemed treasonous in nature by our leaders.
 
Two - The Crime of Treason is hereby deemed a High Crime against the 
Empire of Miruvhor and, as such, is an offense of the highest order, 
punishable by the provisions established in clause three.
 
Three - The High Crime of Treason shall result in immediate and 
eternal expulsion from our Empire, seizure of all properties, and 
execution in the Central Square for any who undermine the authority of 
our Leaders.
 
Four - Any found to have advanced knowledge of a treasonous act, who 
takes no action to prevent said act, shall himself be guilty of 
treason against the Empire of Miruvhor.
~

Scholar Aegilia Bael~
Article Three~
Article Three - The Military
 
One: The Military forces of Miruvhor, including all armies deployed in
military operations and those actively engaged in the defense of our 
capital, are under the direct control of the Leader of Miruvhor.
Henceforth, he is defined as the Commander Supreme of all
armies bearing the Standard of the Empire of Miruvhor.
 
Two: The General of Miruvhor, hereby deemed the second in 
command in all matters relating to the armed forces of Miruvhor,
and is granted leave to conduct military operations of strategic
signifigance without needing direct approval of the 
Commander Supreme in time sensitive situations. 
 
Three: All citizens of Miruvhor over the age of eighteen years and 
certified fit for  combat, as defined hereby by their ability to wield a
sword no longer than a man's arm and no heavier than seven stones,
is requested and required, upon their nineteenth birthday, to report to
the nearest office of the Military where they will serve in Miruvhor's 
armed forces for a period of no less than five years. After this
time, their tour of duty is officially at an end, and they are free to
leave the military with an honorable discharge, or continue their 
careers. However, they are still subject to the provisions under
clause four of this article.
 
Four : All citizens of the Empire of Miruvhor, under the provisions 
granted by clause three, who have been trained in the arts of warfare,
are hereby required to serve in the Royal Secondary Reserve forces of
Miruvhor. This force is hereby free of the requirements for constant 
training and drills demanded of the Primary Reserve,  but will be required
to report to their specified batallion leaders at least once per year, and
meet battle readiness requirements. This force is charged with the 
final defense of Miruvhor, and will be required the stand and fight in the 
streets in the event of foreign invasion.
 
Five : During times of War, the Armed Forces of Miruvhor are hereby
granted the power to impliment Martial Law in all cities and territories
controled by the Empire of Miruvhor. This order can only come from the
Leader of Miruvhor, and only they can recind this order. During this time,
they are under the direct command of the Commander Supreme and 
are exempt from any and all articles in this constitution.
 
Six : The Armed Forces of Miruvhor shall at all times heed and
obey the orders of the Official Chain of Command of the Empire of 
Miruvhor.
~

